Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following management’s discussion and analysis is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated condensed financial statements and notes, and for a full understanding of Applied’s results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with the consolidated condensed financial statements and notes included in this Form 10-Q and the financial statements and notes for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2018 contained in the Company’s Form 10-K filed December 13, 2018.



This report contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Examples of forward-looking statements include those regarding Applied’s future financial or operating results, customer demand and spending, end-use demand, market and industry trends and outlooks, cash flows and cash deployment strategies, declaration of dividends, share repurchases, business strategies and priorities, costs and cost controls, products, competitive positions, management’s plans and objectives for future operations, research and development, strategic acquisitions and investments, including the proposed acquisition of Kokusai Electric Corporation (Kokusai Electric), growth opportunities, restructuring activities, backlog, working capital, liquidity, investment portfolio and policies, taxes, supply chain, manufacturing, properties, legal proceedings and claims, and other statements that are not historical facts, as well as their underlying assumptions. Forward-looking statements may contain words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend,” “potential” and “continue,” the negative of these terms, or other comparable terminology. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and other important factors, including those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” below and elsewhere in this report. These and many other factors could affect Applied’s future financial condition and operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Applied or on its behalf. Forward-looking statements are based on management’s estimates, projections and expectations as of the date hereof, and Applied undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such statements.



Overview



Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the semiconductor, display, and related industries. Applied’s customers include manufacturers of semiconductor wafers and chips, liquid crystal and organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays, and other electronic devices. These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. Each of Applied’s businesses is subject to variable industry conditions, as demand for manufacturing equipment and services can change depending on supply and demand for chips, display technologies, and other electronic devices, as well as other factors, such as global economic and market conditions, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes.



 Applied operates in three reportable segments: Semiconductor Systems, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. A summary of financial information for each reportable segment is found in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. A discussion of factors that could affect Applied’s operations is set forth under “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Product development and manufacturing activities occur primarily in the United States, Europe, Israel, and Asia. Applied’s broad range of equipment and service products are highly technical and are sold primarily through a direct sales force.



Applied’s results are driven primarily by customer spending on capital equipment and services to support key technology transitions or to increase production volume in response to worldwide demand for semiconductors and displays. While certain existing technologies may be adapted to new requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely different technological approach. The timing of customer investment in manufacturing equipment is also affected by the timing of next-generation process development, and the timing of capacity expansion to meet end-market demand. In light of these conditions, Applied’s results can vary significantly year-over-year, as well as quarter-over-quarter.



37

The following table presents certain significant measurements for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Fiscal 2019 and 2018 contain 52 weeks each, and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 each contained 39 weeks.



Investment in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment and services continued to be the main driver of revenue during the first nine months of fiscal 2019. 



Semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment customers’ investments in new capacity and technology transitions decreased compared to the same period in the prior year. Applied continued to see growth in demand for services and continued demand for spares from customers as compared to the same period in the prior year.



While Applied anticipates major technology trends to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry, the softening in demand that began during the second half of 2018 is expected to continue through 2019, led primarily by lower spending from memory customers. Foundry and logic spending is expected to increase year-on-year; however, customers are prioritizing spending on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio. Applied expects lower spending for display manufacturing equipment in fiscal 2019, although long-term demand drivers remain in place. Applied anticipates its global services business to continue to grow in fiscal 2019.



The three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 included a one-time expense related to the enactment of new U.S. tax legislation that reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.01 and $1.05, respectively.



 Applied adopted the authoritative guidance related to revenue recognition in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the full retrospective method. Applied also adopted authoritative guidance related to retirement benefits in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the retrospective method. The adoption of these guidance required restating each prior reporting period presented. 



Results of Operations



Net Sales



Net sales for the periods indicated were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment. The Semiconductor Systems segment continued to represent the largest contributor of total net sales.



38

Net sales by geographic region, determined by the location of customers’ facilities to which products were shipped, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The changes in net sales in all regions in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment spending and customer and product mix. The increase in net sales to customers in Taiwan and United States for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment. The decrease in net sales to customers in all other regions for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected a decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.



Gross Margin



Gross margins for the periods indicated were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross margin in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $23 million and $22 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Gross margin during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $67 million and $65 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. 



Research, Development and Engineering



Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) expenses for the periods indicated were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applied’s future operating results depend to a considerable extent on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the equipment and service products it provides. Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product, which typically has a shorter development cycle, or a new product, which typically has a longer development cycle. Most of Applied’s existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes. In certain instances, Applied acquires technologies, either in existing or new product areas, to complement its existing technology capabilities and to reduce time to market. 



39

Management believes that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E to assure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of its customers’ most advanced designs. Applied has maintained and intends to continue its commitment to investing in RD&E in order to continue to offer new products and technologies.



The increase in RD&E expenses during the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year was primarily due to additional headcount and increased research and development program spending in Semiconductor Systems segment. This increase reflects Applied’s ongoing investment in product development initiatives, consistent with the Company’s strategy. Applied continued to prioritize existing RD&E investments in technical capabilities and critical research and development programs in current and new markets, with a focus on semiconductor technologies. RD&E expenses during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $25 million and $24 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. RD&E expenses during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $74 million and $72 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively.



Marketing and Selling



Marketing and selling expenses for the periods indicated were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Marketing and selling expenses decreased slightly in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower variable compensation expenses. Marketing and selling expenses during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $8 million and $7 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Marketing and selling expenses during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 each included $23 million of share-based compensation expense.



General and Administrative



General and administrative (G&A) expenses for the periods indicated were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



G&A expenses in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to lower variable compensation expenses and favorable impact from foreign exchange. G&A expenses during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 each included $11 million of share-based compensation expense. G&A expenses during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 each included $33 million of share-based compensation expense. 



Interest Expense and Interest and Other Income (Loss), net



Interest expense and interest and other income (loss), net for the periods indicated were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



40

Interest expenses incurred were primarily associated with issued senior unsecured notes. Interest expense in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 remained relatively flat compared to the same periods in the prior year.



Interest and other income, net in the three months ended July 28, 2019 remained relative flat compared to the same period in the prior year. Interest and other income, net in the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in fiscal 2018, primarily driven by unrealized gains on equity investment securities. Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2019, unrealized gains and losses on investments classified as equity investments are recognized in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Condensed Statement of Operations. Prior to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-01 Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, these unrealized gains and temporary losses were included within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of any related tax effect. 



Income Taxes



Provision for income taxes and effective tax rates for the periods indicated were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are affected by the geographical composition of pre-tax income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates, conditional reduced tax rates and other income tax incentives. It is also affected by events that are not consistent from period to period, such as changes in income tax laws and the resolution of prior years’ income tax filings.



On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act). The Tax Act requires a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries payable over eight years. U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities were subject to remeasurement due to the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, which provided guidance on accounting for the income tax effects of the Tax Act and a measurement period for companies to complete this accounting. Applied completed the accounting for the Tax Act during the measurement period, which ended one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act. Accounting for the remeasurement of deferred tax assets was completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, and the accounting for the transition tax was completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.



The Tax Act also includes provisions that impact Applied starting in fiscal 2019, including a provision designed to tax global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). On June 14, 2019, the U.S. government released regulations that significantly affect how the GILTI provision of the Tax Act is interpreted. As a result, Applied reversed a tax benefit of $96 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 that had been realized in the first half of fiscal 2019. An accounting policy choice is allowed to treat GILTI temporary differences in taxable income either as a current-period expense when incurred (period cost method) or factor such amounts into the measurement of deferred taxes (deferred method). Applied has chosen the period cost method.



Applied’s effective tax rates for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 27.0 percent and 5.7 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to the regulations released on June 14, 2019.



Applied’s effective tax rates for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 17.3 percent and 35.2 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.1 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act. Excluding the tax expense of $1.1 billion, the effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to certain provisions in the Tax Act becoming effective in fiscal 2019, $79 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 related to changes in uncertain tax positions and the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 being $42 million less than in the same period in the prior fiscal year.



41

Segment Information



Applied reports financial results in three segments: Semiconductor Systems, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. A description of the products and services, as well as financial data, for each reportable segment can be found in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements. 



The Corporate and Other category includes revenues from products, as well as costs of products sold, for fabricating solar photovoltaic cells and modules and certain operating expenses that are not allocated to its reportable segments and are managed separately at the corporate level. These operating expenses include costs for share-based compensation; certain management, finance, legal, human resource, and RD&E functions provided at the corporate level; and unabsorbed information technology and occupancy. In addition, Applied does not allocate to its reportable segments restructuring and asset impairment charges and any associated adjustments related to restructuring actions, unless these actions pertain to a specific reportable segment.



The results for each reportable segment are discussed below.



Semiconductor Systems Segment



The Semiconductor Systems segment is comprised primarily of capital equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips. Semiconductor industry spending on capital equipment is driven by demand for advanced electronic products, including smartphones and other mobile devices, servers, personal computers, automotive devices, storage, and other products, and the nature and timing of technological advances in fabrication processes, and as a result is subject to variable industry conditions. Development efforts are focused on solving customers’ key technical challenges in transistor, interconnect, patterning and packaging performance as devices scale to advanced technology nodes. 



Semiconductor manufacturing equipment customers made investments in new capacity and technology transitions, although overall spending decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year. Applied continues to see customers optimize existing capacity and focus their capital spending plans on longer lead-time equipment not in Applied’s product portfolio.



Certain significant measures for the periods indicated were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales for Semiconductor Systems by end use application for the periods indicated were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to lower spending from memory customers, partially offset by increased spending from foundry, logic and other customers. Operating margin for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year, primarily reflecting lower net sales, unfavorable changes in customer and product mix, as well as increased RD&E expenses. Four customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segment’s net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 52 percent of this segment’s total net sales, in the three months ended July 28, 2019.



42

The following region accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Semiconductor Systems segment for one or more of the periods presented.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applied Global Services Segment



The Applied Global Services segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, certain remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products.



Demand for Applied Global Services’ service solutions are driven by Applied’s large and growing installed base of manufacturing systems, and customers’ needs to shorten ramp times, improve device performance and yield, and optimize factory output and operating costs. Industry conditions that affect Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services are primarily characterized by increases in semiconductor manufacturers’ wafer starts and continued strong utilization rates, growth of the installed base of equipment, growing service intensity of newer tools, and the Company’s ability to sell more comprehensive service agreements.



Certain significant measures for the periods indicated were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales for the three months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower customer spending on semiconductor spares, partially offset by higher customer spending for comprehensive service agreements. Net sales for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for comprehensive service agreements and legacy systems, partially offset by lower customer spending on semiconductor spares. Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year decreased due to lower net sales and higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. Operating income for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. Operating margin for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in headcount to support revenue growth. In the three months ended July 28, 2019, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.



There was no region that accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Applied Global Services segment for any of the periods presented.



43

Display and Adjacent Markets Segment



The Display and Adjacent Markets segment encompasses products for manufacturing liquid crystal and OLED displays, and other display technologies for TVs, monitors, laptops, personal computers, electronic tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices, equipment upgrades and flexible coating systems. The segment is focused on expanding its presence through technologically-differentiated equipment for manufacturing large-scale LCD TVs, OLEDs, low temperature polysilicon (LTPS), metal oxide, and touch panel sectors; and development of products that provide customers with improved performance and yields. Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs as well as larger and higher resolution displays for next generation mobile devices.



The market environment for Applied’s Display and Adjacent Markets segment was characterized by weak demand for manufacturing equipment for mobile products and TVs, compared to the same periods in the prior year. In addition, uneven spending patterns by customers in the Display and Adjacent Markets segment can cause significant fluctuations quarter-over-quarter, as well as year-over-year.



Certain significant measures for the periods presented were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to lower customer investments in mobile and TV display manufacturing equipment. Operating income and operating margin for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year, reflecting lower net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. In the three months ended July 28, 2019, three customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segment’s net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 86 percent of this segment’s total net sales.



The following region accounted for at least 30 percent of total net sales for the Display and Adjacent Markets segment for one or more of the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



44

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources



Applied’s cash, cash equivalents and investments consist of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sources and Uses of Cash



A summary of cash provided by (used in) operating, investing, and financing activities is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



Cash from operating activities for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 was $2.4 billion, which reflects net income adjusted for the effect of non-cash charges and changes in working capital components. Non-cash charges included depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and deferred income taxes. Cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower cash collections and higher payments to suppliers and for income taxes, offset by a lower change in inventory during the nine months ended July 28, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year. 



Applied has agreements with various financial institutions to sell accounts receivable and discount promissory notes from selected customers. Applied sells its accounts receivable without recourse. Applied, from time to time, also discounts letters of credit issued by customers through various financial institutions. The discounting of letters of credit depends on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to discount the letters of credit and the cost of such arrangements. Applied sold $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion of accounts receivable during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018, respectively. Applied discounted letters of credit issued by customers of $40 million during the nine months ended July 28, 2019. Applied did not discount letters of credit issued by customers or discount promissory notes during the nine months ended July 29, 2018.



Applied’s working capital was $6.3 billion as of July 28, 2019 and $6.7 billion as of October 28, 2018. 



Days sales outstanding for the three months ended July 28, 2019 was 61 days, an increase compared to 59 days sales outstanding for the same period in the prior year. Days sales outstanding varies due to the timing of shipments and payment terms, and the increase was primarily due to higher revenue and favorable collection performance for the same period in the prior year. 



Investing Activities



Applied used $357 million of cash in investing activities during the nine months ended July 28, 2019. Capital expenditures totaled $344 million and were partially offset by the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, net of purchases of investments of $15 million during the nine months ended July 28, 2019.



Applied’s investment portfolio consists principally of investment grade money market mutual funds, U.S. Treasury and agency securities, municipal bonds, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as equity securities. Applied regularly monitors the credit risk in its investment portfolio and takes appropriate measures, which may include the sale of certain securities, to manage such risks prudently in accordance with its investment policies. 



45

Financing Activities



Applied used $2.5 billion of cash in financing activities during the nine months ended July 28, 2019, consisting primarily of repurchases of common stock of $1.9 billion, cash dividends to stockholders of $577 million and tax withholding payments for vested equity awards of $83 million.



In June 2019, March 2019 and December 2018, Applied’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.21, $0.21 and $0.20 per share, respectively. The dividend declared in June 2019 is payable in September 2019. Applied currently anticipates that cash dividends will continue to be paid on a quarterly basis, although the declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on Applied’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination by the Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of Applied’s stockholders.



Applied has credit facilities for unsecured borrowings in various currencies of up to $1.6 billion, of which $1.5 billion is comprised of a committed revolving credit agreement with a group of banks that is scheduled to expire in September 2021. This agreement provides for borrowings in United States dollars at interest rates keyed to one of the two rates selected by Applied for each advance and includes financial and other covenants with which Applied was in compliance as of July 28, 2019. Remaining credit facilities in the amount of approximately $74 million are with Japanese banks. Applied’s ability to borrow under these facilities is subject to bank approval at the time of the borrowing request, and any advances will be at rates indexed to the banks’ prime reference rate denominated in Japanese yen. Applied has not utilized these credit facilities and no amounts were outstanding under any of these facilities as of both July 28, 2019 and October 28, 2018. 



Subsequent to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019, Applied entered into a term loan credit agreement with a group of lenders. Under the agreement, the lenders have committed to make an unsecured term loan to Applied of up to $2.0 billion to finance in part Applied’s planned acquisition of all outstanding shares of Kokusai Electric, to pay related transaction fees and expenses and for general corporate purposes. The commitments of the lenders to make the term loan will terminate if the transactions contemplated by the Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) are not consummated on or before June 30, 2020, which date may be extended by three months on two separate occasions if, on the applicable date, the only remaining conditions to closing relate to required regulatory approvals. The term loan, if advanced, will bear interest at one of two rates selected by Applied, plus an applicable margin, which varies according to Applied’s public debt credit ratings, and must be repaid in full on the third anniversary of the funding date of the term loan.



In fiscal 2011, Applied established a short-term commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion. As of July 28, 2019, Applied did not have any commercial paper outstanding but may issue commercial paper notes under this program from time to time in the future.



In the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries. As of July 28, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $74 million. Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee agreements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee agreements.



Applied also has agreements with various banks to facilitate subsidiary banking operations worldwide, including overdraft arrangements, issuance of bank guarantees, and letters of credit. As of July 28, 2019, Applied has provided parent guarantees to banks for approximately $151 million to cover these arrangements.



Others



On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Act requires a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The transition tax expense is payable in installments over eight years, with eight percent due in each of the first five years starting with fiscal 2018. As of July 28, 2019, Applied has $961 million of total payments remaining, payable in installments in the next seven years. Before the Tax Act, U.S. income tax had not been provided for certain unrepatriated earnings that were considered indefinitely reinvested. Income tax is now provided for all unrepatriated earnings.



Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applied’s management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applied’s liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applied’s operating, investing and financing activities, see the Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows in this report.



46

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Applied’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in this report describe the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies.



A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of Applied’s consolidated financial statements and that requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on Applied’s financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) Applied is required to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates Applied could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, would have a material effect on Applied’s financial condition or results of operations.



Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applied’s operating environment changes. These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. These uncertainties include those discussed in Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Based on a critical assessment of its accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that Applied’s consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a meaningful presentation of Applied’s financial condition and results of operations.



Management believes that the following are critical accounting policies and estimates:



Revenue Recognition



Applied recognizes revenue when promised goods or services (performance obligations) are transferred to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which Applied expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Applied performs the following five steps to determine when to recognize revenue: (1) identification of the contract(s) with customers, (2) identification of the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determination of the transaction price, (4) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognition of revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. Management uses judgment to identify performance obligations within a contract and to determine whether multiple promised goods or services in a contract should be accounted for separately or as a group. Judgment is also used in interpreting commercial terms and determining when transfer of control occurs. Moreover, judgment is used to estimate the contract’s transaction price and allocate it to each performance obligation. Any material changes in the identification of performance obligations, determination and allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations, and determination of when transfer of control occurs to the customer, could impact the timing and amount of revenue recognition, which could have a material effect on Applied’s financial condition and results of operations.



Warranty Costs



Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product, current and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applied’s warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applied’s customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applied’s estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



47

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts



Applied maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. This allowance is based on historical experience, credit evaluations, specific customer collection history and any customer-specific issues Applied has identified. Changes in circumstances, such as an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to meet its financial obligation to Applied or its payment trends, may require Applied to further adjust its estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to Applied, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



Inventory Valuation



Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand. In addition, inventories are evaluated for potential obsolescence due to the effect of known and anticipated engineering change orders and new products. If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



Goodwill and Intangible Assets



Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also annually reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment. Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value. 



To test goodwill for impairment, Applied first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, Applied then performs the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Under the two-step goodwill impairment test, Applied would in the first step compare the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, Applied would then perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If Applied determines that the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, Applied would record an impairment charge equal to the difference.



Applied determines the fair value of each reporting unit based on a weighting of an income and a market approach. Applied bases the fair value estimates on assumptions that it believes to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Under the income approach, Applied estimates the fair value based on discounted cash flow method.



The estimates used in the impairment testing are consistent with the discrete forecasts that Applied uses to manage its business, and considers any significant developments during the period. Under the discounted cash flow method, cash flows beyond the discrete forecasts are estimated using a terminal growth rate, which considers the long-term earnings growth rate specific to the reporting units. The estimated future cash flows are discounted to present value using each reporting unit’s weighted average cost of capital. The weighted average cost of capital measures a reporting unit’s cost of debt and equity financing weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a reporting unit’s target capital structure. In addition, the weighted average cost of capital is derived using both known and estimated market metrics, and is adjusted to reflect both the timing and risks associated with the estimated cash flows. The tax rate used in the discounted cash flow method is the median tax rate of comparable companies and reflects Applied’s current international structure, which is consistent with the market participant perspective. Under the market approach, Applied uses the guideline company method which applies market multiples to forecasted revenues and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Applied uses market multiples that are consistent with comparable publicly-traded companies and considers each reporting unit’s size, growth and profitability relative to its comparable companies. 



Management uses significant judgment when assessing goodwill for potential impairment, especially in emerging markets. Indicators of potential impairment include, but are not limited to, challenging economic conditions, an unfavorable industry or economic environment or other severe decline in market conditions. Such conditions could have the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates used for the fair value calculation, resulting in an unexpected goodwill impairment charge, which could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of goodwill impairment.



48

Income Taxes



Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rate are affected by the geographical composition of pre-tax income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates, conditional reduced tax rates and other income tax incentives. It is also affected by events that are not consistent from period to period, such as changes to income tax laws and the resolution of prior years’ income tax filings. Applied recognizes a current tax liability for the estimated amount of income tax payable on tax returns for the current fiscal year. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent it is more likely than not that they are not expected to be realized.



Applied recognizes tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized from such positions are estimated based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Any changes in judgment related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in Applied’s provision for income taxes in the quarter in which such change occurs. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in Applied’s provision for income taxes.



The calculation of Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rate involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with Applied’s expectations could have an adverse material impact on Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.



49

Non-GAAP Adjusted Financial Results



Management uses non-GAAP adjusted financial measures to evaluate the Company’s operating and financial performance and for planning purposes, and as performance measures in its executive compensation program. Applied believes these measures enhance an overall understanding of its performance and investors’ ability to review the Company’s business from the same perspective as the Company’s management and facilitate comparisons of this period’s results with prior periods on a consistent basis by excluding items that management does not believe are indicative of Applied’s ongoing operating performance. 



The non-GAAP adjusted financial measures presented below are adjusted to exclude the impact of certain costs, expenses, gains and losses, including certain items related to mergers and acquisitions; restructuring charges and any associated adjustments; impairments of assets, or investments; gain or loss on sale of strategic investments; tax effect of share-based compensation; certain income tax items and other discrete adjustments. Additionally, non-GAAP results exclude estimated discrete income tax expense items associated with recent U.S. tax legislation. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided in the financial tables presented below. There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, and may exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.



50

The following tables present a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted consolidated results:



APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.



UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.



2GAAP basis tax benefit related to share-based compensation is being recognized ratably over the fiscal year on a non-GAAP basis.



3Charges to income tax provision related to a one-time transition tax and a decrease in U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of the recent U.S. tax legislation.



4Adjustment to provision for income taxes related to non-GAAP adjustments reflected in income before income taxes.



51

APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.



UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



52

The following table presents a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted segment results:



APPLIED MATERIALS, INC.



UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP ADJUSTED RESULTS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 These items are incremental charges attributable to completed acquisitions, consisting of amortization of purchased intangible assets.



Note: The reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP adjusted segment results above does not include certain revenues, costs of products sold and operating expenses that are reported within corporate and other and included in consolidated operating income.



53

Item 3:Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



Applied is exposed to interest rate risk related to its investment portfolio and debt issuances. Applied’s investment portfolio includes fixed-income securities with a fair value of approximately $2.0 billion as of July 28, 2019. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase. Based on Applied’s investment portfolio as of July 28, 2019, an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of the portfolio of approximately $28 million. While an increase in interest rates reduces the fair value of the investment portfolio, Applied will not realize the losses in the consolidated statement of operations unless the individual fixed-income securities are sold prior to recovery or the loss is determined to be other-than-temporary. As of July 28, 2019, the aggregate principal of long-term debt issued by Applied was $5.4 billion with an estimated fair value of $5.9 billion. A hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 100 basis points would result in an increase in the fair value of Applied’s long-term debt issuances of approximately $539 million as of July 28, 2019.



Certain operations of Applied are conducted in foreign currencies, such as Japanese yen, euro, Israeli shekel and Taiwanese dollar. Applied enters into currency forward exchange and option contracts to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing and anticipated foreign currency denominated transactions generally expected to occur within the next 24 months. Gains and losses on these contracts are generally recognized in income at the time that the related transactions being hedged are recognized. Because the effect of movements in currency exchange rates on currency forward exchange and option contracts generally offsets the related effect on the underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments are not expected to subject Applied to risks that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates. Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.



Item 4. Controls and Procedures



Disclosure Controls and Procedures



As of the end of the period covered by this report, management of Applied conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of Applied’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of Applied’s disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, Applied’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Applied’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report in ensuring that information required to be disclosed was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by Applied in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.



Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, there were no changes in the internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act, that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Applied’s internal control over financial reporting.



It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system will be met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.



54

PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings



The information set forth under “Legal Matters” in Note 14 in Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1A:Risk Factors



The risk factors set forth below include any material changes to, and supersede the description of, the risk factors disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of Applied’s 2018 Form 10-K. These factors could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations and cause reputational harm, and should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report.



The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.



As a supplier to the global semiconductor and display and related industries, Applied is subject to variable industry conditions, as demand for manufacturing equipment and services can change depending on several factors, including the nature and timing of technology inflections and advances in fabrication processes, the timing and requirements of new and emerging technologies and market drivers, production capacity relative to demand for chips and display technologies, end-user demand, customers’ capacity utilization, production volumes, access to affordable capital, consumer buying patterns and general economic conditions. Applied’s industries historically have been cyclical, and are subject to volatility and sudden changes in customer requirements for new manufacturing capacity and advanced technology. These changes can affect the timing and amounts of customer investments in technology and manufacturing equipment, and can have a significant impact on Applied’s net sales, operating expenses, gross margins and net income. The amount and mix of capital equipment spending between different products and technologies can have a significant impact on the Company’s results of operations.



To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity across its businesses, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations. During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs. During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. If Applied does not effectively manage these challenges during periods of changing demand, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Even with effective allocation of resources and management of costs, during periods of decreasing demand, Applied’s gross margins and earnings may be adversely impacted.



Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.



Applied has product development, engineering, manufacturing, sales and other operations distributed throughout many countries, and some of its business activities are concentrated in certain geographic areas. Moreover, in the three months ended July 28, 2019, approximately 85 percent of Applied’s net sales were to customers in regions outside the United States. As a result of the global nature of its operations, Applied’s business performance and results of operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:



•uncertain global economic and political business conditions and demands;



•political and social attitudes, laws, rules, regulations and policies within countries that favor domestic companies over non-domestic companies, including customer- or government-supported efforts to promote the development and growth of local competitors;



•global trade issues and changes in and uncertainties with respect to trade policies, including the ability to obtain required import and export licenses, trade sanctions, tariffs, and international trade disputes;



•customer- or government-supported efforts to influence Applied to conduct more of its operations and sourcing in a particular country, such as Korea and China;



•variations among, and changes in, local, regional, national or international laws and regulations, including contract, intellectual property, cybersecurity, data privacy, labor, tax, and import/export laws, and the interpretation and application of such laws and regulations;



•ineffective or inadequate legal protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries;



•positions taken by governmental agencies regarding possible national commercial and/or security issues posed by international business operations;



55

•fluctuating raw material, commodity, energy and shipping costs;



•delays or restrictions in shipping materials or finished products between countries;



•geographically diverse operations and projects, and our ability to maintain appropriate business processes, procedures and internal controls, and comply with environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption and other regulatory requirements;



•supply chain interruptions, and service interruptions from utilities, transportation, data hosting or telecommunications providers, or other events beyond our control;



•a diverse workforce with different experience levels, languages, cultures, customs, business practices and worker expectations, and differing employment practices and labor issues;



•variations in the ability to develop relationships with local customers, suppliers and governments;



•fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Israeli shekel, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar;



•the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations around the world;



•performance of third party providers of outsourced functions, including certain engineering, software development, manufacturing, information technology and other activities;



•political instability, natural disasters, pandemics, social unrest, terrorism or acts of war in locations where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales, or that may influence the value chain of the industries that Applied serves;



•challenges in hiring and integration of an increasing number of workers in new countries;



•the increasing need for a mobile workforce to work in or travel to different regions; and



•uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.



International trade disputes could result in increases in tariffs and other trade restrictions and protectionist measures that could have an adverse impact on our operations.



We sell a significant majority of our products into countries outside of the United States including China. We also purchase a significant portion of equipment and supplies from suppliers outside of the United States. The United States and other countries have imposed and may continue to impose trade restrictions, and have also levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods. Increases in tariffs, additional taxes or other trade restrictions and retaliatory measures may impact end-user demand and customer investment in manufacturing equipment, increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. 



Certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses, and our inability to obtain such licenses could potentially limit our markets and impact our business. In addition, government authorities may impose conditions that require the use of local suppliers or partnerships with local companies, require the license or other transfer of intellectual property, or engage in other efforts to promote local businesses and local competitors, which could have a significant adverse impact on Applied’s business. Many of these challenges are present in China and Korea, markets that represent a significant portion of Applied’s current business as well as long-term growth opportunities.



Applied is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain global economy.



Uncertain global economic and business conditions, along with uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, pose challenges to the industries in which Applied operates. Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products. Economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain Applied customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from purchasing for equipment or services, which may have an adverse impact on Applied’s revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales, additional inventory or bad debt expense for Applied. Economic and industry uncertainty may similarly affect suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and negatively affect Applied’s ability to manage operations and deliver its products. These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively.



56

Uncertain economic and industry conditions also make it more challenging for Applied to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect its businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. If Applied does not appropriately manage its business operations in response to changing economic and industry conditions, it could have a significant negative impact on its business performance and financial condition. Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities. Even during periods of economic uncertainty or lower revenues, Applied must continue to invest in research and development and maintain a global business infrastructure to compete effectively and support its customers, which can have a negative impact on its operating margins and earnings.



Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations. If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applied’s ability to access cash in the affected accounts, which could affect its ability to manage its operations.



Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.



Applied’s customer base is highly concentrated, and has become increasingly so as a result of continued consolidation. Applied’s customer base is also geographically concentrated. A relatively limited number of manufacturers account for a substantial portion of Applied’s business. As a result, the actions of even a single customer can expose Applied’s business and results of operations to greater volatility. The mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, including as a result of changes in government policy, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year, and have a significant impact on Applied’s net sales, gross margins and net income. Applied’s products are configured to customer specifications, and changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non-recoverable costs. If customers do not place orders, or they substantially reduce, delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to replace the business, which may have a significant adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. The concentration of Applied’s customer base increases its risks related to the financial condition of its customers, and the deterioration in financial condition of a single customer or the failure of a single customer to perform its obligations could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s results of operations and cash flow. To the extent its customers experience liquidity constraints, Applied may incur additional bad debt expense, which may have a significant impact on its results of operations. Major customers may also seek pricing, payment, intellectual property-related, or other commercial terms that are less favorable to Applied, which may have a negative impact on Applied’s business, cash flow, revenue and gross margins. 



Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates.



The global semiconductor, display and related industries in which Applied operates are characterized by ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries that impact demand for and the profitability of Applied’s products and its consolidated results of operations, including:



•the nature, timing and degree of visibility of changes in end demand for electronic products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to seasonality or the introduction of new products, and the effects of these changes on customers’ businesses and on demand for Applied’s products;



•increasing capital requirements for building and operating new fabrication plants and customers’ ability to raise the necessary capital;



•trade, regulatory or tax policies impacting the timing of customers’ investment in new or expanded fabrication plants;



•differences in growth rates among the semiconductor, display and other industries in which Applied operates;



•the increasing importance of establishing, improving and maintaining strong relationships with customers;



•the increasing cost and complexity for customers to move from product design to volume manufacturing, which may slow the adoption rate of new manufacturing technology;



•the need for customers to continually reduce the total cost of manufacturing system ownership;



•the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and productivity and the effect on demand for fabrication systems as a result of their increasing productivity, device yield and reliability;



•manufacturers’ ability to reconfigure and re-use fabrication systems which can reduce demand for new equipment;



•the increasing importance of, and difficulties in, developing products with sufficient differentiation to influence customers’ purchasing decisions;



•requirements for shorter cycle times for the development, manufacture and installation of manufacturing equipment;



57

•price and performance trends for semiconductor devices and displays, and the corresponding effect on demand for such products;



•the increasing importance of the availability of spare parts to maximize the time that customers’ systems are available for production;



•the increasing role for and complexity of software in Applied products; and



•the increasing focus on reducing energy usage and improving the environmental impact and sustainability associated with manufacturing operations.



Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry.



The largest proportion of Applied’s consolidated net sales and profitability is derived from sales of manufacturing equipment in the Semiconductor Systems segment to the global semiconductor industry. In addition, a majority of the revenues of Applied Global Services is from sales to semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and the profitability of Applied’s semiconductor manufacturing equipment and service products, including:



•the increasing frequency and complexity of technology transitions and inflections, and Applied’s ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these changes;



•the increasing cost of research and development due to many factors, including shrinking geometries, the use of new materials, new and more complex device structures, more applications and process steps, increasing chip design costs, and the increasing cost and complexity of integrated manufacturing processes;



•the need to reduce product development time, despite the increasing difficulty of technical challenges;



•the growing number of types and varieties of semiconductors and number of applications across multiple substrate sizes;



•the increasing cost and complexity for semiconductor manufacturers to move more technically advanced capability and smaller geometries to volume manufacturing, and the resulting impact on the rates of technology transition and investment in capital equipment;



•challenges in generating organic growth given semiconductor manufacturers’ levels of capital expenditures and the allocation of capital investment to market segments that Applied does not serve, such as lithography, or segments where Applied’s products have lower relative market presence;



•the importance of increasing market positions in segments with growing demand;



•semiconductor manufacturer’s ability to reconfigure and re-use equipment, and the resulting effect on their need to purchase new equipment and services;



•shorter cycle times between order placements by customers and product shipment require greater reliance on forecasting of customer investment, which may lead to inventory write-offs and manufacturing inefficiencies that decrease gross margin;



•competitive factors that make it difficult to enhance position, including challenges in securing development-tool-of-record (DTOR) and production-tool-of-record (PTOR) positions with customers;



•consolidation in the semiconductor industry, including among semiconductor manufacturers and among manufacturing equipment suppliers;



•shifts in sourcing strategies by computer and electronics companies that impact the equipment requirements of Applied’s foundry customers;



•the concentration of new wafer starts in Korea and Taiwan, where Applied’s service penetration and service-revenue-per-wafer-start have been lower than in other regions; 



•investment in semiconductor manufacturing capabilities in China, which may be affected by changes in economic conditions and governmental policies in China and the United States; and



•the increasing fragmentation of semiconductor markets, leading certain markets to become too small to support the cost of a new fabrication plant, while others require less technologically advanced products.



If Applied does not accurately forecast, and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing, key technology changes and inflections, successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new technologies, and effectively address industry trends, its business and results of operations may be adversely impacted.



58

Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry.



The global display industry historically has experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment investment levels, due in part to the limited number of display manufacturers, the concentrated nature of end-use applications, production capacity relative to end-use demand, and panel manufacturer profitability. Industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs, and on demand for advanced smartphones and mobile device displays, which demand is highly sensitive to cost and improvements in technologies and features. The display industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and the profitability of Applied’s display products and services, including:



•the importance of new types of display technologies, such as organic light-emitting diode (OLED), low temperature polysilicon (LTPS) and metal oxide transistor backplanes, flexible displays, and new touch panel films;



•the increasing cost of research and development, and complexity of technology transitions and inflections, and Applied’s ability to timely and effectively anticipate and adapt to these changes;



•the timing and extent of an expansion of manufacturing facilities in China, which may be affected by changes in economic conditions and governmental policies in China and the United States;



•the importance of increasing market positions in products and technologies with growing demand;



•the rate of transition to larger substrate sizes for TVs and to new display technologies for TVs and mobile applications, and the resulting effect on capital intensity in the industry and on Applied’s product differentiation, gross margin and return on investment; and



•fluctuations in customer spending quarter over quarter and year over year for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.



If Applied does not successfully develop and commercialize products to meet demand for new and emerging display technologies, or if industry demand for display manufacturing equipment and technologies slows, Applied’s business and its results of operations may be adversely impacted.



The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.



Applied operates in a highly competitive environment in which innovation is critical, and its future success depends on many factors, including the development of new technologies and effective commercialization and customer acceptance of its equipment, services and related products, and its ability to increase its position in its current markets, expand into adjacent and new markets, and optimize operational performance. The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of products in a geographically diverse and competitive environment, and that may require greater collaboration with customers and other industry participants, have grown more complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may entail higher costs and lower profits. To compete successfully, Applied must:



•identify and address technology inflections, market changes, new applications, customer requirements and end-use demand;



•develop new products and disruptive technologies, improve and develop new applications for existing products, and adapt products for use by customers in different applications and markets with varying technical requirements;



•differentiate its products from those of competitors, meet customers’ performance specifications, appropriately price products, and achieve market acceptance;



•maintain operating flexibility to enable responses to changing markets, applications, customers and customer requirements;



•enhance its worldwide operations across its businesses to reduce cycle time, enable continuous quality improvement, reduce costs, and enhance design for manufacturability and serviceability;



•focus on product development and sales and marketing strategies that address customers’ high value problems and strengthen customer relationships;



•effectively allocate resources between its existing products and markets, the development of new products, and expanding into new and adjacent markets;



•improve the productivity of capital invested in R&D activities;



•accurately forecast demand, work with suppliers and meet production schedules for its products;



59

•improve its manufacturing processes and achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings;



•adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply chain;



•qualify products for evaluation and volume manufacturing with its customers; and 



•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.



If Applied does not successfully anticipate technology inflections, develop and commercialize new products and technologies, and respond to changes in customer requirements and market trends, its business performance and results of operations may be adversely impacted.



Applied is exposed to risks associated with business combinations, acquisitions and strategic investments.



Applied engages in acquisitions of or investments in companies, technologies or products in existing, related or new markets for Applied. Business combinations, acquisitions and investments, such as the proposed acquisition of Kokusai Electric, involve numerous risks to Applied’s business, financial condition and operating results, including but not limited to:



•inability to complete proposed transactions timely or at all due to the failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals, litigation or other disputes, and any ensuing obligation to pay a termination fee (which, in the case of the stock purchase agreement related to the proposed acquisition of Kokusai Electric, Applied will be obligated to pay in the amount of $154 million if such agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals);



•diversion of management’s attention and disruption of ongoing businesses;



•contractual restrictions on the conduct of Applied’s business during the pendency of a proposed transaction;



•the failure to realize expected revenues, gross and operating margins, net income and other returns from acquired businesses;



•requirements imposed by government regulators in connection with their review of a transaction, which may include, among other things, divestitures and restrictions on the conduct of Applied’s existing business or the acquired business;



•following completion of acquisitions, ineffective integration of businesses, operations, systems, technologies, products or employees, changes in laws or regulations, including tax laws, or other factors, may impact the ability to realize anticipated synergies or other benefits;



•failure to commercialize technologies from acquired businesses or developed through strategic investments;



•dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners;



•inability to capitalize on characteristics of new markets that may be significantly different from Applied’s existing markets and where competitors may have stronger market positions and customer relationships;



•failure to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses;



•the potential impact of the announcement or consummation of a proposed transaction on relationships with third parties;



•potential changes in Applied’s credit rating, which could adversely impact the Company’s access to and cost of capital;



•increases in debt obligations, which increase interest expense, and reductions in cash balances, which reduce the availability of cash flow for general corporate or other purposes, including share repurchases and dividends;



•exposure to new operational risks, rules, regulations, worker expectations, customs and practices to the extent acquired businesses are located in regions where Applied has not historically conducted business;



•challenges associated with managing new, more diverse and more widespread operations, projects and people;



•inability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights in key technologies;



•inadequacy or ineffectiveness of an acquired company’s internal financial controls, disclosure controls and procedures, cybersecurity, privacy policies and procedures, or environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption, human resource, or other policies or practices;



•impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill as a result of changing business conditions, technological advancements or worse-than-expected performance of the segment;



•the risk of litigation or claims associated with a proposed or completed transaction;



•unknown, underestimated or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; and



•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.



60

Applied also makes strategic investments in other companies, including companies formed as joint ventures, which may decline in value or not meet desired objectives. The success of these investments depends on various factors over which Applied may have limited or no control and, particularly with respect to joint ventures, requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners. In addition, new legislation or additional regulations may affect or impair our ability to invest in certain countries or require us to obtain regulatory approvals to do so. The risks to Applied’s strategic investment portfolio may be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of the investment portfolio could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.



Applied is exposed to risks associated with operating in jurisdictions with complex and changing tax laws.



Applied is subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in applicable tax laws, interpretations of applicable tax laws, amount and composition of pre-tax income in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, and valuation of deferred tax assets. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act). On June 14, 2019, the U.S. government released regulations that significantly affect how the GILTI provision of the Tax Act is interpreted. As a result, Applied reversed a tax benefit of $96 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 that had been realized in the first half of fiscal 2019. An increase in Applied’s provision for income taxes and effective tax rate could have a material adverse impact on Applied’s results of operations and financial condition.



Consistent with the international nature of its business, Applied conducts certain manufacturing, supply chain, and other operations in Asia, bringing these activities closer to customers and reducing operating costs. In certain foreign jurisdictions, conditional reduced income tax rates have been granted to Applied. To obtain the benefit of these tax incentives, Applied must meet requirements relating to various activities. Applied’s ability to realize benefits from these incentives could be materially affected if, among other things, applicable requirements are not met or Applied incurs net losses in these jurisdictions.



In addition, Applied is subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities, and from time to time amends previously filed tax returns. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations and amendments to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes, which requires estimates and judgments. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the tax authorities will agree with such estimates. Applied may have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in the estimates, which may be time-consuming and expensive. There can be no assurance that Applied will be successful or that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in Applied’s historical income tax provisions and effective tax rates.



Applied’s indebtedness and debt covenants could adversely affect its financial condition and business.



Applied has $5.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. Under the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes, it may be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, upon a change of control of Applied and a contemporaneous downgrade of the notes below investment grade. Applied also has in place a $1.5 billion committed revolving credit agreement. While no amounts were outstanding under this credit agreement as of July 28, 2019, Applied may borrow amounts in the future under the agreement. Applied may also enter into new financing arrangements. Applied’s ability to satisfy its debt obligations is dependent upon the results of its business operations and subject to other risks discussed in this section. Significant changes in Applied’s credit rating or changes in the interest rate environment could have a material adverse consequence on Applied’s access to and cost of capital for future financings, and financial condition. If Applied fails to satisfy its debt obligations, or comply with financial and other debt covenants, it may be in default and any borrowings may become immediately due and payable, and such default may also constitute a default under other of Applied’s obligations. There can be no assurance that Applied would have sufficient financial resources or be able to arrange financing to repay any borrowings at such time. 



Applied is exposed to risks associated with expanding into new and related markets and industries.



As part of its growth strategy, Applied must successfully expand into related or new markets and industries, either with its existing products or with new products developed internally, or those developed in collaboration with third parties, or obtained through acquisitions. Applied’s ability to successfully expand its business into new and related markets and industries may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including:



•the need to devote additional resources to develop new products for, and operate in, new markets;



•the need to develop new sales and technical marketing strategies, cultivate relationships with new customers and meet different customer service requirements;



•differing rates of profitability and growth among multiple businesses;



•Applied’s ability to anticipate demand, capitalize on opportunities, and avoid or minimize risks;



61

•the complexity of managing multiple businesses with variations in production planning, execution, supply chain management and logistics;



•the adoption of new business models, business processes and systems;



•the complexity of entering into and effectively managing strategic alliances or partnering opportunities;



•new materials, processes and technologies;



•the need to attract, motivate and retain employees with skills and expertise in these new areas;



•new and more diverse customers and suppliers, including some with limited operating histories, uncertain or limited funding, evolving business models or locations in regions where Applied does not have, or has limited, operations;



•new or different competitors with potentially more financial or other resources, industry experience and established customer relationships;



•entry into new industries and countries, with differing levels of government involvement, laws and regulations, and business, employment and safety practices;



•third parties’ intellectual property rights; and



•the need to comply with, or work to establish, industry standards and practices.



In addition, Applied from time to time receives funding from United States and other government agencies for certain strategic development programs to increase its research and development resources and address new market opportunities. As a condition to this government funding, Applied may be subject to certain record-keeping, audit, intellectual property rights-sharing and/or other obligations.



Manufacturing interruptions or delays, or the failure to accurately forecast customer demand, could affect Applied’s ability to meet customer demand, lead to higher costs, or result in excess or obsolete inventory.



Applied’s business depends on its timely supply of equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing technical and volume requirements of its customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, including components and subassemblies, from suppliers, including contract manufacturers. The inability to timely obtain sufficient quantities of parts can have an adverse impact on Applied’s manufacturing operations and ability to meet customer demand for equipment, spares and services. Some key parts are subject to long lead-times or obtainable only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by suppliers located in countries other than the countries where Applied conducts its manufacturing. Variable industry conditions and the volatility of demand for manufacturing equipment increase capital, technical, operational and other risks for Applied and for companies throughout its supply chain. These conditions may cause some suppliers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other companies, or file for bankruptcy protection and possibly cease operations. Applied may also experience significant interruptions of its manufacturing operations, delays in its ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or customer order cancellations as a result of:



•the failure or inability to accurately forecast demand and obtain sufficient quantities of quality parts on a cost-effective basis;



•volatility in the availability and cost of materials;



•difficulties or delays in obtaining required import or export approvals;



•shipment delays due to transportation interruptions or capacity constraints;



•information technology or infrastructure failures, including those of a third party supplier or service provider; and



•natural disasters or other events beyond Applied’s control (such as earthquakes, floods or storms, regional economic downturns, pandemics, social unrest, political instability, terrorism, or acts of war), particularly where it conducts manufacturing.



If a supplier fails to meet Applied’s requirements concerning quality, cost, protection of intellectual property, socially-responsible business practices, or other performance factors, Applied may transfer its business to alternative sources, which could entail manufacturing delays, additional costs, or other difficulties. If Applied is unable to meet its customers’ demand for a prolonged period due to its inability to obtain certain parts or components, it could affect its ability to manage its operations, and have an adverse impact on Applied’s business, results of operations and customer relationships. In addition, if Applied needs to rapidly increase its business and manufacturing capacity to meet increases in demand or expedited shipment schedules, this may exacerbate any interruptions in Applied’s manufacturing operations and supply chain and the associated effect on Applied’s working capital. Moreover, if actual demand for Applied’s products is different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. If Applied purchases inventory in anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or if customers reduce or delay orders, Applied may incur excess inventory charges.



62

The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applied’s success.



Applied’s success, competitiveness and ability to execute on its global strategies and maintain a culture of innovation depend in large part on its ability to attract, retain and motivate employees with key skills and experience. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, management changes, Applied’s organizational structure, increasing global competition for talent, the availability of qualified employees, cost reduction activities (including workforce reductions and unpaid shutdowns), availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and the attractiveness of Applied’s compensation and benefit programs, including its share-based programs. The loss or retirement of employees presents particular challenges to the extent they involve the departure of knowledgeable and experienced employees and the resulting need to identify and train existing or new workers to perform necessary functions, which may result in unexpected costs, reduced productivity, and/or difficulties with respect to internal processes and controls.



Applied is exposed to various risks related to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights.



Applied’s success depends in significant part on the protection of its patents, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights. Infringement of Applied’s rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. Policing any unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and costly and Applied cannot be certain that the measures it has implemented will prevent misuse. Applied’s ability to enforce its intellectual property rights is subject to litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the protection and enforceability of those rights in some countries. If Applied seeks to enforce its intellectual property rights, it may be subject to claims that those rights are invalid or unenforceable, and others may seek counterclaims against Applied, which could have a negative impact on its business. If Applied is unable to enforce and protect intellectual property rights, or if they are circumvented, invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, it could have an adverse impact on its competitive position and business. In addition, changes in intellectual property laws or their interpretation, such as recent changes in U.S. patent laws, may impact Applied’s ability to protect and assert its intellectual property rights, increase costs and uncertainties in the prosecution of patent applications and enforcement or defense of issued patents, and diminish the value of Applied’s intellectual property.



Third parties may also assert claims against Applied and its products. Claims that Applied’s products infringe the rights of others, whether or not meritorious, can be expensive and time-consuming to defend and resolve, and may divert the efforts and attention of management and personnel. The inability to obtain rights to use third party intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms could have an adverse impact on Applied’s business. In addition, Applied may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information. Any such incidents and claims could severely harm Applied’s business and reputation, result in significant expenses, harm its competitive position, and prevent Applied from selling certain products, all of which could have a significant adverse impact on Applied’s business and results of operations.



Applied is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and incidents.



In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or third party providers. These data include confidential information and intellectual property belonging to Applied or its customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. All information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure. Applied has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have been material to the Company to date. Applied devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect its systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. However, depending on their nature and scope, cybersecurity incidents could result in business disruption; the misappropriation of intellectual property, and corruption or loss of confidential information and critical data (Applied’s and that of third parties); reputational damage; litigation with third parties; diminution in the value of Applied’s investment in research, development and engineering; data privacy issues; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. Compliance with, and changes to, laws and regulations concerning privacy and information security could result in significant expense, and any failure to comply could result in proceedings against Applied by regulatory authorities or other third parties.



63

Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings.



Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product liability, unfair competition, misappropriation of trade secrets, employment, workplace safety, and other matters. Applied also on occasion receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or has other obligations related to claims made against such customers by third parties.



Legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, and associated internal investigations, may be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute, defend or conduct; divert management’s attention and other Applied resources; inhibit Applied’s ability to sell its products; result in adverse judgments for damages, injunctive relief, penalties and fines; and negatively affect Applied’s business. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.



The failure to successfully implement enterprise resource planning and other information systems changes could adversely impact Applied’s business and results of operations.



Applied periodically implements new or enhanced enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth. Implementation of new business processes and information systems requires the commitment of significant personnel, training and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations. If Applied does not successfully implement enterprise resource planning and related information systems improvements, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing these systems, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience interruptions in service and operational difficulties, such as its ability to track orders, timely manufacture and ship products, project inventory requirements, effectively manage its supply chain and allocate human resources, aggregate financial data and report operating results, and otherwise effectively manage its business, all of which could result in quality issues, reputational harm, lost market and revenue opportunities, and otherwise adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



Applied may incur impairment charges related to goodwill or long-lived assets.



Applied has a significant amount of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets related to acquisitions. Goodwill and purchased intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The review compares the fair value for each of Applied’s reporting units to its associated carrying value, including goodwill. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include adverse industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, declines in the market price of Applied common stock, changes in Applied’s strategies or product portfolio, and restructuring activities. Applied’s valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and projections of future operating performance. Applied may be required to record future charges to earnings during the period in which an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets is determined to exist.



Applied is subject to risks associated with environmental and safety regulations.



Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its global business operations, including but not limited to: regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of its products; handling, discharge, recycling and disposal of hazardous materials used in its products or in producing its products; the operation of its facilities; and the use of its real property. The failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in: significant remediation or other legal liabilities; the imposition of penalties and fines; restrictions on the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of its products; limitations on the operation of its facilities or ability to use its real property; and a decrease in the value of its real property. Applied could be required to alter its manufacturing and operations and incur substantial expense in order to comply with environmental and safety regulations. Any failure to comply with environmental and safety regulations could subject Applied to significant costs and liabilities that could adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations.



Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.



As a public company with global operations, Applied is subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions, including those related to financial and other disclosures, accounting standards, corporate governance, intellectual property, tax, trade, antitrust, employment, immigration and travel regulations, privacy, and anti-corruption. Changing, inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules and regulations, and ambiguities in their interpretation and application create uncertainty and challenges, and compliance with laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive, divert management time and attention from revenue-generating activities, and otherwise adversely impact Applied’s business operations. Violations of law, rules and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, restrictions on Applied’s business, and damage to its reputation, and could have an adverse impact on its business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 



64

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



The following table provides information as of July 28, 2019 with respect to the shares of common stock repurchased by Applied during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 pursuant to a publicly announced stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in February 2018, which authorized up to an aggregate of $6.0 billion in repurchases.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



65

Item 6. Exhibits



Exhibits are numbered in accordance with the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



†Filed herewith.



‡Furnished herewith.



66

SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



August 22, 2019 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



August 22, 2019



67
