Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



All statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the word “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” “should” or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties include those associated with: the domestic and foreign general business and economic conditions in the markets we serve, including political and currency risks and adverse changes in local legal and regulatory environments; the introduction of new technologies and the impact of competitive products; the ability to protect the Company’s intellectual property; our ability to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and product acceptance to accurately align capacity with demand; the continued success of our customers and the ability to realize the full amounts reflected in our order backlog as revenue; the loss of significant customers or the enforceability of the Company’s contracts in connection with a merger, acquisition, disposition, bankruptcy, or otherwise; our ability to meet the technical specifications of our customers; the performance of subcontractors or suppliers and the continued availability of parts and components; changes in government regulations; the availability of financing and our access to capital markets, borrowings, or financial transactions to hedge certain risks; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel who can design new applications and products for the motion industry; the ability to implement our corporate strategies designed for growth and improvement in profits including to identify and consummate favorable acquisitions to support external growth and the development of new technologies; the ability to successfully integrate an acquired business into our business model without substantial costs, delays, or problems; our the ability to control costs, including the establishment and operation of low cost region manufacturing and component sourcing capabilities; and the additional risk factors discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in Part II of this report and in the Company’s Annual Report in Form 10-K. Actual results, events and performance may differ materially. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward- looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. New risks and uncertainties arise over time, and it is not possible for us to predict the occurrence of those matters or the manner in which they may affect us. The Company has no obligation or intent to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 



New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on its business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Company’s expectations, beliefs and projections are believed to have a reasonable basis; however, the Company makes no assurance that expectations, beliefs or projections will be achieved. 



Overview 



We are a global company that designs, manufactures and sells precision and specialty motion control components and systems used in a broad range of industries. Our target markets include Vehicle, Medical, Aerospace & Defense, Electronics and Industrial. We are headquartered in Amherst, NY, and have operations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia. We are known worldwide for our expertise in electro-magnetic, mechanical and electronic motion technology. We sell component and integrated motion control solutions to end customers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) through our own direct sales force and authorized manufacturers’ representatives and distributors. Our products include brush and brushless DC motors, brushless servo and torque motors, coreless DC motors, integrated brushless motor-drives, gearmotors, gearing, modular digital servo drives, motion controllers, incremental and absolute optical encoders, and other motion control-related products. 



Financial overview 



Significantly higher revenues, reflecting growth across all the Company’s served markets led to leveraging of costs and expansion of margins. Excluding the favorable effects of foreign currency exchange (FX), second quarter revenue was $77,724, up 29%. For the six months ended June 30, 2018, excluding the favorable effects of FX, revenue was $150,267, up 24%. 



We remain focused on executing our strategy for growth while streamlining the organization and emphasizing continuous improvement in quality, delivery, cost and innovation as we drive the One Allied approach and expand our value proposition for our customers. Solid strides continue to be made with our multi-product, fully integrated solutions that are leading to increased business. Also, we continue to build a pipeline of exciting market-based application opportunities. Sales cycles 



18 



Table of Contents 



are long and the time from being selected for the solution development to full rate production can be longer, yet we believe we are building a scalable foundation which can deliver strong returns on those investments. 



Operating Results 



Quarter ended June 30, 2018 compared to quarter ended June 30, 2017 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NET INCOME: Net income increased during the second quarter due to a significant increase in revenues and the leveraging of fixed cost compared to the second quarter of 2017. The increase in revenue was partially offset by higher operating expenses, mainly additional incentive compensation expense and investments in E&D and the One Allied organizational buildout in support of our aggressive growth strategy. 



EBITDA AND ADJUSTED EBITDA: EBITDA was $9,263 for the second quarter of 2018 compared to $6,417 for the same quarter last year. Adjusted EBITDA was $10,026 and $6,905 for the second quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measurements. EBITDA consists of income before interest expense, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes stock compensation expense and certain other items. Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. 



REVENUES: For the quarter, the increase in revenues reflects increased sales in all our served markets as well as the contribution from the acquisition made in January 2018. 



19 



Table of Contents 



Sales to U.S. customers were 52% of total sales for the quarter compared with 54% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia. The overall increase in revenue was due to a 29% volume increase and a 4% favorable currency impact. 



ORDER BOOKINGS AND BACKLOG: The increase in bookings in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 is largely due to organic growth across all of the major markets served by the company. The acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business during the first quarter 2018 continues to contribute to the increased bookings. The increase of backlog as of June 30, 2018, compared to at June 30, 2017 was attributable to the same factors. 



GROSS MARGIN: Gross margin decreased 20 basis points to 29.4% for the second quarter of 2018 compared to 29.6% for the same quarter last year. This is due to the dilutive impact of the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business offset by the increased leveraging of fixed manufacturing costs across higher volume. 



SELLING EXPENSES: Selling expenses increased in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 primarily due to increased investment and growth of the One Allied Sales Organization. Selling expenses as a percentage of revenues were 3.7% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to 4.5% for the same period last year. 



GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: General and administrative expenses increased by 39% in the second quarter 2018 from the second quarter 2017 largely due to higher stock compensation expense and incentive compensation expense associated with improved performance. As a percentage of revenues, general and administrative expenses remained constant near 10% for the period ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017. 



ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES: Engineering and development expenses increased by 13% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the same quarter last year, however decreased as a percentage of sales. The increase is primarily due to the continued ramp up of development projects to meet the future needs of customers and target markets. As a percentage of revenues, engineering and development expenses were 6% and 7% for the second quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively. 



BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COSTS: The Company incurred $165 of business development costs related to the acquisition of Maval OE Steering business and activity associated with other M&A opportunities. The Company did not incur any business development costs for the second quarter of 2017. 



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS: Amortization expense increased 10% to $878 in the second quarter of 2018 compared to the second quarter of 2017 due to the increase in intangible assets from the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business. 



INCOME TAXES: The effective income tax rate as a percentage of income before income taxes was 27.4% and 31.8% in the second quarter 2018 and 2017, respectively. The effective tax rate for the second quarters of 2018 and 2017 is net of a discrete tax benefit of (0.5%) and (1.5%), respectively, related primarily to the recognition of excess tax benefits for share-based payment awards. The effective rate before discrete items varies from the statutory rate primarily due to differences in state taxes, the impact of international tax provisions in the US, the difference in US and foreign tax rates and the mix of foreign and domestic income. 



20 



Table of Contents 



Six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to six months ended June 30, 2017 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NET INCOME: Net income increased during 2018 reflecting a significant increase in revenues and the leveraging of fixed cost compared to the first two quarters of 2018. 



EBITDA AND ADJUSTED EBITDA: EBITDA was $18,359 for 2018 compared to $13,242 last year. Adjusted EBITDA was $19,769 and $14,196 for 2018 and 2017, respectively. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measurements. EBITDA consists of income before interest expense, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes stock compensation expense and certain other items. Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. 



REVENUES: For 2018, the increase in revenues reflects increased sales in all our served markets. 



Sales to U.S. customers were 52% of total sales for 2017 compared with 54% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia. Sales volume increased by 24% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, and there was a 5% favorable currency impact. 



ORDER BOOKINGS AND BACKLOG: The increase in orders in 2018 compared to 2017 is largely due to organic growth across all the major markets served by the company, along with the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business. The increase in backlog in 2018 compared to 2017 was attributable to the same factors. 



GROSS MARGIN: Gross margin increased 20 basis points to 29.4% in 2018 compared to 29.2% in 2017. This is due to the leveraging of fixed manufacturing costs across the increased volume along with favorable product mix dynamics. 



21 



Table of Contents 



SELLING EXPENSES: Selling expenses increased in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to increased investment in and focused growth of the One Allied Sales Organization. Selling expenses as a percentage of revenues were consistent near 4% for 2018 and 2017. 



GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: General and administrative expenses increased by 35% in 2018 compared to 2017 largely due to increased headcount in support of our growth strategy and incentive compensation expense associated with improved performance. As a percentage of revenues, general and administrative expenses were 10% for 2018 and 2017. 



ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES: Engineering and development expenses increased by 15% in 2018 compared to 2017. The increase is primarily due to the continued ramp up of development projects to meet the future needs of target markets, particularly at our European locations as well as supporting growing customer application development needs. As a percentage of revenues, engineering and development expenses were 6% for 2018, down from 7% for 2017. 



BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COSTS: The Company incurred $316 of business development costs related to the acquisition of Maval OE Steering business and activity associated with other M&A opportunities for 2018. 



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS: Amortization expense increased 11% in 2018 compared to 2017 due to the increase in intangible assets from the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business. 



INCOME TAXES: The effective income tax rate as a percentage of income before income taxes was 26.8% and 31.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The effective tax rate is net of a discrete tax benefit of (1.4%) and (1.9%), respectively, related primarily to the recognition of excess tax benefits for share-based payment awards. The effective rate before discrete items varies from the statutory rate primarily due to differences in state taxes, the impact of international tax provisions in the US, the difference in US and foreign tax rates and the mix of foreign and domestic income. 



Non-GAAP Measures 



EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are provided for information purposes only and are not measures of financial performance under GAAP. 



Management believes the presentation of these financial measures reflecting non-GAAP adjustments provides important supplemental information in evaluating the operating results of the Company as distinct from results that include items that are not indicative of ongoing operating results; in particular, those charges and credits that are not directly related to operating unit performance, and that are not a helpful measure of the performance of our underlying business particularly in light of their unpredictable nature. This non-GAAP disclosure has limitations as an analytical tool, should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company’s results as reported under GAAP, nor is it necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies. In addition, supplemental presentation should not be construed as an inference that the Company’s future results will be unaffected by similar adjustments to net income determined in accordance with GAAP. 



The Company believes EBITDA is often a useful measure of a Company’s operating performance and is a significant basis used by the Company’s management to measure the operating performance of the Company’s business because EBITDA excludes charges for depreciation, amortization and interest expense that have resulted from our debt financings, as well as our provision for income tax expense. EBITDA is frequently used as one of the bases for comparing businesses in the Company’s industry. 



The Company also believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides helpful information about the operating performance of its business. Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock compensation expense, as well as certain income or expenses which are not indicative of the ongoing performance of the Company. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not represent and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure for determining operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 



22 



Table of Contents 



The Company’s calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 is as follows (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



The Company’s liquidity position as measured by cash and cash equivalents decreased by $261 to a balance of $15,329 at June 30, 2018 from December 31, 2017. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Operating cash flow is flat for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to 2017. The increase in net income in 2018 is offset by increases in working capital needs due to the Maval OE Steering business acquisition and Company growth. 



The significant cash used in investing activities in 2018 reflects the acquisition the Maval OE Steering business during the quarter. Also during the six months ended June 30, 2018, purchases of property and equipment were $5,555 compared to $2,677 for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Capital expenditures are expected to increase throughout 2018 to support our new contract wins along with our continued IT infrastructure enhancements. The Company expects to invest between $13 million and $16 million in capital expenditures during 2018. 



The change in cash used in financing activities reflects the 2018 use of the revolver to partially finance the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business. During the second quarter 2018, we utilized our foreign revolver to make a $1,500 capital investment into our Changzhou operation to fund expansion and future capital spending in support of recently announced contract wins. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we made payments of $2,500 for our Revolving Facility obligation compared to $6,000 for the same period in 2017. At June 30, 2018, we had $64,982 of obligations under the Revolving Facility. 



The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants related to minimum interest coverage and total leverage ratio at the end of each quarter. The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants and restrictions, including limits on the amount of additional indebtedness, and restrictions on the ability to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all our assets. We were in compliance with all covenants at June 30, 2018. 



As of June 30, 2018, the amount available to borrow under the Credit Agreement was approximately $60,018. 



There were no additional borrowings for the China Facility balance for during the six months ended June 30, 2018 from December 31, 2017. The balance at June 30, 2018 was $453 (RMB 3,000), and the available borrowings were approximately $1,058 (RMB 7,000). 



23 



Table of Contents 



The Company declared dividends of $0.025 per share during the first quarter 2018 and $0.030 per share during the second quarter 2018. The Company’s working capital, capital expenditure and dividend requirements are expected to be funded from cash provided by operations and amounts available under the Credit Agreement. 



