Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



All statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the word “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” “should” or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties include those associated with: the domestic and foreign general business and economic conditions in the markets we serve, including political and currency risks and adverse changes in local legal and regulatory environments; the introduction of new technologies and the impact of competitive products; the ability to protect the Company’s intellectual property; our ability to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and product acceptance to accurately align capacity with demand; the continued success of our customers and the ability to realize the full amounts reflected in our order backlog as revenue; the loss of significant customers or the enforceability of the Company’s contracts in connection with a merger, acquisition, disposition, bankruptcy, or otherwise; our ability to meet the technical specifications of our customers; the performance of subcontractors or suppliers and the continued availability of parts and components; changes in government regulations; the availability of financing and our access to capital markets, borrowings, or financial transactions to hedge certain risks; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel who can design new applications and products for the motion industry; the ability to implement our corporate strategies designed for growth and improvement in profits including to identify and consummate favorable acquisitions to support external growth and the development of new technologies; the ability to successfully integrate an acquired business into our business model without substantial costs, delays, or problems; our the ability to control costs, including the establishment and operation of low cost region manufacturing and component sourcing capabilities; and the additional risk factors discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in Part II of this report and in the Company’s Annual Report in Form 10-K. Actual results, events and performance may differ materially. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward- looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. New risks and uncertainties arise over time, and it is not possible for us to predict the occurrence of those matters or the manner in which they may affect us. The Company has no obligation or intent to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 



New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on its business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Company’s expectations, beliefs and projections are the and are believed to have a reasonable basis; however, the Company makes no assurance that expectations, beliefs or projections will be achieved. 



Overview 



We are a global company that designs, manufactures and sells precision and specialty controlled motion components and systems used in a broad range of industries. Our target markets include Vehicle, Medical, Aerospace & Defense, and Industrial. We are headquartered in Amherst, NY, and have operations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia. We are known worldwide for our expertise in electro-magnetic, mechanical and electronic motion technology. We sell component and integrated controlled motion solutions to end customers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) through our own direct sales force and authorized manufacturers’ representatives and distributors. Our products include brush and brushless DC motors, brushless servo and torque motors, coreless DC motors, integrated brushless motor-drives, gearmotors, gearing, modular digital servo drives, motion controllers, incremental and absolute optical encoders, active and passive filters for power quality and harmonic issues, and other controlled motion-related products. 



Financial overview 



Growth across all the Company’s served markets led to leveraging of costs and expansion of margins. Excluding the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange (“FX”) of $2,010, second quarter revenue was $94,640, up 18.3%. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, excluding the unfavorable effects of FX of $5,150, revenue was $191,676, up 22.4%. Revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts is a non-GAAP measurement. Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of revenue to revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts. 



Our One Allied strategy to gain market share with our unique ability to provide engineered solutions for our customers is the primary driver of our growth in 2019. Our business operating system, Allied Systematic Tools (AST), is contributing to 



20 



Table of Contents 



stronger margins. Improved product mix helped to overcome an ongoing supplier issue. Our recent acquisition, TCI continues to be a strong contributor to sales and earnings and has strategically expanded our market access. 



Operating Results 



Quarter ended June 30, 2019 compared to quarter ended June 30, 2018 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NET INCOME: Net income increased during the second quarter of 2019 reflecting a significant increase in revenues partially offset by increased selling and general administrative costs to support growth. 



EBITDA AND ADJUSTED EBITDA: EBITDA was $11,277 for the second quarter of 2019 compared to $9,263 for the same quarter last year. Adjusted EBITDA was $12,146 and $10,026 for the second quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measurements. EBITDA consists of income before interest expense, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes stock compensation expense and certain other items. Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. 



REVENUES: For the quarter, the increase in revenues reflects increased sales in all our served markets, including contributions from the TCI acquisition made in December 2018. 



Sales to U.S. customers were 58% of total sales for the quarter compared with 52% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia. The overall increase in revenue was due to an 18.3% volume increase offset by a 2.5% unfavorable currency impact. 



21 



Table of Contents 



ORDER BOOKINGS AND BACKLOG: The increase in bookings in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 is largely due to growth across all of the major markets served by the company, including contributions from the TCI acquisition made in December 2018. The increase of backlog as of June 30, 2019, compared to at June 30, 2018 was attributable to the same factors. 



GROSS MARGIN: Gross margin increased 130 basis points to 30.7% for the second quarter of 2019 compared to 29.4% for the same quarter last year. This is due to higher volumes, favorable product mix across a number of served markets, the recent acquisition of TCI. 



SELLING EXPENSES: Selling expenses increased in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the same period of 2018. This was attributable to higher commissioned sales and the additional selling organizations associated with the Maval OE Steering and TCI acquisitions. Selling expenses as a percentage of revenues were 4.5% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 3.7% for the same period last year. 



GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: General and administrative expenses increased by 15% in the second quarter 2019 from the second quarter 2018 largely due to the addition of TCI. As a percentage of revenues, general and administrative expenses remained constant near 10% for the period ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. 



ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES: Engineering and development expenses increased by 14% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the same quarter last year, however decreased as a percentage of sales. The increase in expenses is primarily due to added resources (headcount and consulting), the continued ramp up of development projects to meet the future needs of customers and target markets along with the engineering resources associated with the acquired businesses in 2018. As a percentage of revenues, engineering and development expenses were 6.1% and 6.2% for the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. 



BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COSTS: The Company incurred $3 of business development costs in the second quarter of 2019 compared to $165 of business development costs in the second quarter last year. 



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS: Amortization expense increased 63% to $1,430 in the second quarter of 2019 compared to the second quarter of 2018 due to the increase in intangible assets from the acquisition TCI. 



INCOME TAXES: The effective income tax rate as a percentage of income before income taxes was 28.0% and 27.4% in the second quarter 2019 and 2018, respectively. The effective tax rate for the second quarters of 2019 and 2018 is net of a discrete tax benefit of (0.5%) related primarily to the recognition of excess tax benefits for share-based payment awards. The effective rate before discrete items varies from the statutory rate primarily due to differences in state taxes, the impact of international tax provisions in the US, the difference in US and foreign tax rates and the mix of foreign and domestic income. 



22 



Table of Contents 



Six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to six months ended June 30, 2018 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NET INCOME: Net income increased during 2019 reflecting an increase in revenues partially offset by increased selling and general administrative costs to support growth along with the added infrastructure costs of the acquisitions completed during 2018. 



EBITDA AND ADJUSTED EBITDA: EBITDA was $22,281 for 2019 compared to $18,359 last year. Adjusted EBITDA was $23,877 and $19,769 for 2019 and 2018, respectively. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measurements. EBITDA consists of income before interest expense, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes stock compensation expense and certain other items. Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. 



REVENUES: For 2019, the increase in revenues reflects increased sales in all our served markets, as well as contributions from the TCI acquisition made in December 2018. 



Sales to U.S. customers were 56% of total sales for 2019 compared with 52% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia. Sales volume increased by 22.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2019, offset by a 3.3% unfavorable currency impact. 



ORDER BOOKINGS AND BACKLOG: The increase in orders in 2019 compared to 2018 is largely due to organic growth across all the major markets served by the company, along with the acquisition of TCI in late 2018. The increase in backlog as of June 30, 2019, compared to June 30, 2018 was attributable to the same factors. 



23 



Table of Contents 



GROSS MARGIN: Gross margin increased 70 basis points to 30.1% in 2019 compared to 29.4% in 2018. As noted above, this is due is due to higher volumes, favorable product mix across a number of served markets, and the recent acquisition of TCI. 



SELLING EXPENSES: Selling expenses increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to higher commissioned sales and the additional selling organization associated with the acquisition of TCI. Selling expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 4.4% for 2019 compared to 3.6% in 2018. 



GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: General and administrative expenses increased by 17% in 2019 compared to 2018 largely due to the acquisition of TCI along with higher stock compensation and incentive compensation expense associated with improved performance. As a percentage of revenues, general and administrative expenses were 10% for 2019 and 2018. 



ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES: Engineering and development expenses increased by 16% in 2019 compared to 2018, however decreased as percentage of sales. The increase in expenses is primarily due to added resources (headcount and consulting), the continued ramp up of development projects to meet the future needs of customers and target markets along with the engineering resources associated with the acquired businesses in 2018. As a percentage of revenues, engineering and development expenses were 6.2% for 2019, down 10 basis points from 6.3% in 2018. 



BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COSTS: The Company incurred $56 of business development costs in 2019 compared to $316 of business development costs last year. The costs in 2019 relate to activity from the December 2018 acquisition of TCI. The costs in 2018 were related to the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business and activity associated with other M&A opportunities. 



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS: Amortization expense increased 62% in 2019 compared to 2018 due to the increase in intangible assets from the acquisition TCI. 



INCOME TAXES: The effective income tax rate as a percentage of income before income taxes was 27.7% and 26.8% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The effective tax rate is net of a discrete tax benefit of (1.1%) and (1.4%), respectively, related primarily to the recognition of excess tax benefits for share-based payment awards. The effective rate before discrete items varies from the statutory rate primarily due to differences in state taxes, the impact of international tax provisions in the US, the difference in US and foreign tax rates and the mix of foreign and domestic income. 



Non-GAAP Measures 



Revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are provided for information purposes only and are not measures of financial performance under GAAP. 



Management believes the presentation of these financial measures reflecting non-GAAP adjustments provides important supplemental information in evaluating the operating results of the Company as distinct from results that include items that are not indicative of ongoing operating results; in particular, those charges and credits that are not directly related to operating unit performance, and that are not a helpful measure of the performance of our underlying business particularly in light of their unpredictable nature. These non-GAAP disclosures have limitations as analytical tools, should not be viewed as a substitute for revenue and net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of the Company’s results as reported under GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies. In addition, supplemental presentation should not be construed as an inference that the Company’s future results will be unaffected by similar adjustments to net income determined in accordance with GAAP. 



The Company believes that revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts is a useful measure in analyzing organic sales results. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from revenue for this measure because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between the current period revenue and the current period revenue after applying foreign exchange rates from the prior period. 



The Company believes EBITDA is often a useful measure of a Company’s operating performance and is a significant basis used by the Company’s management to measure the operating performance of the Company’s business because EBITDA excludes charges for depreciation, amortization and interest expense that have resulted from our debt financings, as well as 



24 



Table of Contents 



our provision for income tax expense. EBITDA is frequently used as one of the bases for comparing businesses in the Company’s industry. 



The Company also believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides helpful information about the operating performance of its business. Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock compensation expense, as well as certain income or expenses which are not indicative of the ongoing performance of the Company. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not represent and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure for determining operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 



The Company’s calculation of revenues excluding foreign currency exchange impacts for the quarter ended June 30, 2019 is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company’s calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



The Company’s liquidity position as measured by cash and cash equivalents increased by $1,790 to a balance of $10,463 at June 30, 2019 from December 31, 2018. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



During the second quarter of 2019, the increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a decrease in working capital needs primarily for inventories despite increased revenues along with higher levels of orders, particularly in the second quarter of 2019. 



25 



Table of Contents 



The significant cash used in investing activities in 2018 reflects the acquisition the Maval OE Steering business. Purchases of property and equipment were $6,401 during 2019 compared to $5,555 for 2018. The Company expects to invest between $15 million and $18 million in capital expenditures during 2019. 



During the first quarter of 2019, the Company utilized revolver borrowings to fund working capital to support the growth seen from fourth quarter 2018 along with the payment of annual incentive compensation amounts. During the second quarter of 2019, the Company made payments on the revolver that offset all but $695 of the 2019 borrowings. 



The cash used in financing activities in first quarter 2018 reflects the use of the revolver to partially finance the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business. At June 30, 2019, we had $123,695 of obligations under the Revolving Facility excluding the unamortized debt issue costs. 



The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants related to minimum interest coverage and total leverage ratio at the end of each quarter. The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants and restrictions, including limits on the amount of additional indebtedness, and restrictions on the ability to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all our assets. We were in compliance with all covenants at June 30, 2019. 



As of June 30, 2019, the amount available to borrow under the Credit Agreement was approximately $51,305. The Credit Agreement matures in October 2021. 



There were no borrowings for the China Facility balance during the quarter ended June 30, 2019. 



The Company declared dividends of $0.030 per share during the first quarter 2019 and $0.030 per share during the second quarter of 2019. The Company’s working capital, capital expenditure and dividend requirements are expected to be funded from cash provided by operations and amounts available under the Credit Agreement. 



