Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



All statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the word “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “will continue,” “will likely result,” “should” or words or phrases of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties include those associated with: the domestic and foreign general business and economic conditions in the markets we serve, including political and currency risks and adverse changes in local legal and regulatory environments; the introduction of new technologies and the impact of competitive products; the ability to protect the Company’s intellectual property; our ability to sustain, manage or forecast its growth and product acceptance to accurately align capacity with demand; the continued success of our customers and the ability to realize the full amounts reflected in our order backlog as revenue; the loss of significant customers or the enforceability of the Company’s contracts in connection with a merger, acquisition, disposition, bankruptcy, or otherwise; our ability to meet the technical specifications of our customers; the performance of subcontractors or suppliers and the continued availability of parts and components; changes in government regulations; the availability of financing and our access to capital markets, borrowings, or financial transactions to hedge certain risks; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel who can design new applications and products for the motion industry; the ability to implement our corporate strategies designed for growth and improvement in profits including to identify and consummate favorable acquisitions to support external growth and the development of new technologies; the ability to successfully integrate an acquired business into our business model without substantial costs, delays, or problems; our the ability to control costs, including the establishment and operation of low cost region manufacturing and component sourcing capabilities; and the additional risk factors discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in Part II of this report and in the Company’s Annual Report in Form 10-K. Actual results, events and performance may differ materially. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward- looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. New risks and uncertainties arise over time, and it is not possible for us to predict the occurrence of those matters or the manner in which they may affect us. The Company has no obligation or intent to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 



New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on its business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. The Company’s expectations, beliefs and projections are the and are believed to have a reasonable basis; however, the Company makes no assurance that expectations, beliefs or projections will be achieved. 



Overview 



We are a global company that designs, manufactures and sells precision and specialty controlled motion components and systems used in a broad range of industries. Our target markets include Vehicle, Medical, Aerospace & Defense, and Industrial. We are headquartered in Amherst, NY, and have operations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia. We are known worldwide for our expertise in electro-magnetic, mechanical and electronic motion technology. We sell component and integrated controlled motion solutions to end customers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) through our own direct sales force and authorized manufacturers’ representatives and distributors. Our products include brush and brushless DC motors, brushless servo and torque motors, coreless DC motors, integrated brushless motor-drives, gearmotors, gearing, modular digital servo drives, motion controllers, incremental and absolute optical encoders, active and passive filters for power quality and harmonic issues, and other controlled motion-related products. 



Financial overview 



Acquisitive and organic growth across all the Company’s served markets led to leveraging of costs and expansion of margins. Excluding the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange (“FX”) of $3,140, first quarter revenue was $97,036, up 26.7%. Revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts is a non-gaap measurement. Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of revenue to revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts. 



We remain focused on executing our strategy for growth while streamlining the organization and emphasizing continuous improvement in quality, delivery, cost and innovation as we drive the One Allied approach and expand our value proposition for our customers. Solid strides continue to be made with our multi-product, fully integrated solutions that are leading to increased business. Also, we continue to build a pipeline of exciting market-based application opportunities. Sales cycles 



20 



Table of Contents 



are long and the time from being selected for the solution development to full rate production can be longer, yet we believe we continue to build a scalable foundation which can deliver strong returns on those investments. 



Operating Results 



Quarter ended March 31, 2019 compared to quarter ended March 31, 2018 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NET INCOME: Net income increased during the first quarter 2019 compared to the first quarter 2018 reflecting a significant increase in revenues partially offset by increased selling and general and administrative costs to support growth. Gross margins and operating margins were muted by some atypical events within our supply chain and production cycles supporting manufacturing development and customer requirements for new contracts that are beginning to ramp-up in 2019. 



EBITDA AND ADJUSTED EBITDA: EBITDA was $11,004 for the first quarter of 2019 compared to $9,096 for the same quarter last year. Adjusted EBITDA was $11,731 and $9,743 for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measurements. EBITDA consists of income before interest expense, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes stock compensation expense and certain other items. Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. 



REVENUES: For the quarter, the increase in revenues reflects increased sales in all our served markets as well as contributions from the TCI acquisition made in December 2018. 



21 



Table of Contents 



Sales to U.S. customers were 54% of total sales for the first quarter 2019 compared with 53% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia. The overall increase in revenue was due to an 27% volume increase offset by a 4% unfavorable currency impact. 



ORDER BOOKINGS AND BACKLOG: The increase in bookings in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 is largely due to organic growth across all of the major markets served by the company. The acquisition of TCI in late 2018 contributes to the increased bookings in 2019. The increase in backlog as of March 31, 2019, compared to at March 31, 2018 was attributable to the same factors. 



GROSS MARGIN: Gross margin remained consistent at 29.5% for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 however 2019 was negatively impacted by some atypical events within our supply chain and production cycles as referenced earlier. The first event relates to an increase in pricing from a supplier who is discontinuing operations and subsequently increased their prices for any new orders through the first half of 2019. The second item was the timing of investment into tooling and prototype samples related to new Vehicle market programs. Both impacts are expected to moderate over the coming quarters. 



SELLING EXPENSES: Selling expenses increased in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period of 2018. This was attributable to higher commissioned sales and the additional selling organizations associated with the Maval OE Steering and TCI acquisitions. Selling expenses as a percentage of revenues were 4.4% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 3.5% for the same period last year. 



GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: General and administrative expenses increased by 20% in the first quarter 2019 from the first quarter 2018 largely due to the acquisitions of Maval OE Steering and TCI along with higher stock compensation and incentive compensation expense associated with improved performance. As a percentage of revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased 20 basis points to 9.5% for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 compared to 9.7% for the same period in 2018. 



ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES: Engineering and development expenses increased by 17.2% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same quarter last year, however decreased as a percentage of sales. The increase in expenses is primarily due to added resources (headcount and consulting), the continued ramp up of development projects to meet the future needs of customers and target markets along with the engineering resources associated with the acquired businesses in 2018. As a percentage of revenues, engineering and development expenses were 6.2% and 6.5% for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. 



BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COSTS: The Company incurred $53 of business development costs in the first quarter 2019 compared to $151 of business development costs in the first quarter last year. The costs in 2019 relate to activity from the December 2018 acquisition of TCI. The costs in first quarter 2018 were related to the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business and activity associated with other M&A opportunities. 



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS: Amortization expense increased 62% to $1,432 in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due to the increase in intangible assets from the acquisition of TCI. 



INCOME TAXES: The effective income tax rate as a percentage of income before income taxes was 27.5% and 26.2% in the first quarter 2019 and 2018, respectively. The effective tax rate is net of a discrete tax benefit of (1.8%) and (2.3%), rate for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 respectively, related primarily to the recognition of excess tax benefits for share-based payment awards. The effective rate before discrete items varies from the statutory rate primarily due to differences in state taxes, the impact of international tax provisions in the US, the difference in foreign tax rates and the mix of foreign and domestic income. 



Non-GAAP Measures 



Revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are provided for information purposes only and are not measures of financial performance under GAAP. 



Management believes the presentation of these financial measures reflecting non-GAAP adjustments provides important supplemental information in evaluating the operating results of the Company as distinct from results that include items that are not indicative of ongoing operating results; in particular, those charges and credits that are not directly related to operating unit performance, and that are not a helpful measure of the performance of our underlying business particularly in light of their unpredictable nature. These non-GAAP disclosures have limitations as analytical tools, should not be viewed as a substitute for revenue and net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation or as 



22 



Table of Contents 



a substitute for analysis of the Company’s results as reported under GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies. In addition, supplemental presentation should not be construed as an inference that the Company’s future results will be unaffected by similar adjustments to net income determined in accordance with GAAP. 



The Company believes that revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts is a useful measure in analyzing organic sales results. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from revenue for this measure because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between the current period revenue and the current period revenue after applying foreign exchange rates from the prior period. 



The Company believes EBITDA is often a useful measure of a Company’s operating performance and is a significant basis used by the Company’s management to measure the operating performance of the Company’s business because EBITDA excludes charges for depreciation, amortization and interest expense that have resulted from our debt financings, as well as our provision for income tax expense. EBITDA is frequently used as one of the bases for comparing businesses in the Company’s industry. 



The Company also believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides helpful information about the operating performance of its business. Adjusted EBITDA excludes stock compensation expense, as well as certain income or expenses which are not indicative of the ongoing performance of the Company. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not represent and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure for determining operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 



The Company’s calculation of revenues excluding foreign currency exchange impacts for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company’s calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



23 



Table of Contents 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



The Company’s liquidity position as measured by cash and cash equivalents decreased by $1,511 to a balance of $10,184 at March 31, 2019 from December 31, 2018. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



During the first quarter of 2019, the decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to an increase in working capital needs to support the sequential quarter, primarily for trade receivables. 



The significant cash used in investing activities in the first quarter 2018 reflects the acquisition the Maval OE Steering business. Purchases of property and equipment were $2,505 during the first quarter 2019 compared to $2,222 for the first quarter 2018. Capital expenditures are expected to increase for the remainder of 2019 to support our continued growth. The Company expects to invest between $15 million and $18 million in capital expenditures during 2019. 



During 2019, the Company utilized revolver borrowings to fund working capital to support the growth seen from fourth quarter 2018 along with the payment of annual incentive compensation amounts. The cash used in financing activities in first quarter 2018 reflects the use of the revolver to partially finance the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business. At March 31, 2019, we had $129,502 of obligations under the Revolving Facility excluding the unamortized debt issue costs. 



The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants related to minimum interest coverage and total leverage ratio at the end of each quarter. The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants and restrictions, including limits on the amount of additional indebtedness, and restrictions on the ability to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all our assets. We were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2019. 



As of March 31, 2019, the amount available to borrow under the Credit Agreement was approximately $45,498. The Credit Agreement matures in October 2021. 



There were no borrowings for the China Facility balance during the quarter ended March 31, 2019. 



The Company declared dividends of $0.030 per share during the first quarter 2019 and $0.025 per share during the first quarter of 2018. The Company’s working capital, capital expenditure and dividend requirements are expected to be funded from cash provided by operations and amounts available under the Credit Agreement. 



