Item 4. Controls and Procedures 



Conclusion regarding the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures 



Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (principal accounting officer), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of March 31, 2018. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. 



Based on management’s evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2018, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 



Changes in internal control over financial reporting 



The Company implemented a financial reporting system, Hyperion Financial Management (HFM), as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our systems and processes. The implementation occurred in phases throughout 2017 and was substantially completed in the fourth quarter of 2017. The Company utilized and relied on HFM during the first quarter of 2018. 



As a result of the HFM implementation, certain changes to our processes and procedures have and will continue to occur. These changes will result in changes to our internal control over financial reporting. While HFM is designed to strengthen our internal financial controls by automating certain manual processes and standardizing business processes and reporting across our organization, management will continue to evaluate and monitor our internal controls as each of the affected areas evolve. 



During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, with the exception of the addition of the Maval OE Steering business, there have been no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 



Note regarding acquisition 



In making our assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2018, we have excluded the operations of the Maval OE Steering business. We are currently assessing the control environment of this acquired business. Our consolidated financial statements reflect the Maval OE Steering business results of operations from January 19, 2018. 



