Item 4.Controls and Procedures



Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



Our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)) are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms. Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.



Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report. We perform this evaluation on a quarterly basis so that the conclusions concerning the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures can be reported in our Annual Report and Quarterly Reports. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



We adopted the leases guidance under ASC 842 in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, which impacted our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note C within the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the impact of adopting ASC 842 and ongoing considerations. In connection with the adoption of ASC 842, we modified our internal control over financial reporting (as this term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act), including our accounting policies and procedures, operational processes and documentation practices. These modifications included:



•modifications of certain accounting processes and procedures related to leases;



•the addition of new controls over contract review to take into account the new criteria for lease capitalization;



•the addition of controls to address related financial reporting and required disclosures.



Other than as described above relating to the adoption of ASC 842, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



31

Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures



Not applicable.



Item 5.Other Information



None.



Item 6.Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________



(1)Incorporated by reference herein. Filed by the Company as an exhibit to its Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1990. (P) Filed in paper format.



(2)Incorporated by reference herein. Filed by the Company as Exhibit 3.1 to its Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2010.



32

SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



33
