Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



​



The Company, in the normal course of doing business, is exposed to a variety of risks, including market risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. The Company does not have any significant concentration with any one counterparty. There has been no material change in the Company’s assessment of its sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rate risk since its presentation set forth in Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in its 2018 Annual Report. The Company may borrow under its Revolving Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Programs. Any borrowings under the Euro Commercial Paper Program and the 2028 Euro Notes, as discussed in Note 13 of the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, are and 



34 

may continue to be denominated in foreign currencies, and there can be no assurance that the Company can successfully manage these changes in exchange rates, including in the event of a significant and sudden decline in the value of any of the foreign currencies for which such borrowings are made. In addition, any borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility either bear interest at or trade at rates that fluctuate with a spread over LIBOR, while any borrowings under the Commercial Paper Programs are subject to floating interest rates. Therefore, when the Company borrows under these debt instruments, the Company is exposed to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates. As of June 30, 2019, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, while borrowings under the U.S. Commercial Paper Program and Euro Commercial Paper Program were at an average floating rate of 2.58% and (0.10)%, respectively. The Company does not expect changes in interest rates to have a material effect on income or cash flows in 2019, although there can be no assurances that interest rates will not change significantly.



​



