Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Business Overview



Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services. We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices. We also operate esports leagues and events and create film and television content based on our intellectual property. The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.



The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992. In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A, and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.



Our Segments



Based on our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments, as follows:



(i) Activision Publishing, Inc.



Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform. Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products. Activision develops, markets, and sells products primarily based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties. Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.



In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise. Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise. As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision. Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.



(ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc.



Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform. Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products. Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content. Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.



Blizzard’s key product franchises include: World of Warcraft®, a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game for the PC platform; StarCraft®, a real-time strategy franchise for the PC platform; Diablo®, an action role-playing franchise for the PC and console platforms; Hearthstone®, an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; and Overwatch®, a team-based first-person shooter for the PC and console platforms.



(iii) King Digital Entertainment



King Digital Entertainment (“King”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on the mobile platform, including for Google Inc.’s (“Google”) Android and Apple Inc.’s (“Apple”) iOS. King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook. King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.



32

King’s key product franchises, all of which are for the mobile and PC platforms, include: Candy Crush™, which features “match three” games; Farm Heroes™, which also features “match three” games; and Bubble Witch™, which features “bubble shooter” games.



Other



We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including:



•the Activision Blizzard Studios (“Studios”) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in September 2018, released the third season of the animated TV series Skylanders™ Academy on Netflix; and



•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.



Business Results and Highlights



Financial Results



For the three months ended March 31, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Since certain of our games are hosted online or include significant online functionality that represents a separate performance obligation, we defer the transaction price allocable to the online functionality from the sale of these games and recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year. Net revenues and operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019, include a net effect of $567 million and $441 million, respectively, from the recognition of deferred net revenues and related cost of revenues.



Content Release and Event Highlights



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, Activision released SekiroTM: Shadows Die Twice, a new intellectual property developed in collaboration with FromSoftware, a third-party game developer. Additionally, Blizzard commenced the second season of the Overwatch League, which included eight new teams now competing in the league, bringing the total to 20 teams.



33

Operating Metrics



The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.



Net Bookings



We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business. Net bookings is the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period, and includes license fees, merchandise, and publisher incentives, among others. Net bookings is equal to net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.



Net bookings was as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease in net bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease was partially offset by net bookings from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018.



Monthly Active Users



We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base. MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month. We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period. An individual who accesses two of our games would be counted as two users. In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users. For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.



The number of MAUs for a given period can be significantly impacted by the timing of new content releases, since new releases may cause a temporary surge in MAUs. Accordingly, although we believe that overall trending in the number of MAUs can be a meaningful performance metric, period-to-period fluctuations may not be indicative of longer-term trends. The following table details our average MAUs on a sequential quarterly basis for each of our reportable segments (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



34

Average MAUs decreased by 11 million, or 3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 primarily driven by a decrease in average MAUs for Activision. The decrease in Activision’s average MAUs is primarily due to (1) the Destiny franchise, as Destiny MAUs are no longer included in our average MAU metric since we sold our publishing rights in the Destiny franchise to Bungie in December 2018, and (2) decreases in the Call of Duty franchise. The decrease is partially offset by an increase in average MAUs for King, driven by the Candy Crush franchise.



Average MAUs decreased by 29 million, or 8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The year-over-year decrease in average MAUs is due to:



•decreases across King’s various franchises, primarily from less engaged users leaving the network, partially offset by an increase in average MAUs for the Candy Crush franchise; 



•lower average MAUs for Activision, primarily due to lower average MAUs from the Call of Duty franchise and the absence of Destiny MAUs in our operating metric; and 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



King MAUs were also negatively impacted by a King network outage in the second quarter of 2018, resulting from changes made by a third-party partner which inadvertently impacted some users’ ability to play and spend money in King games. 



Management’s Overview of Business Trends



Interactive Entertainment and Mobile Gaming Growth



Our business participates in the global interactive entertainment industry. Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 18% annually from 2015 to 2018. The industry continues to benefit from additional players entering the market as interactive entertainment becomes more commonplace across age groups and as more developing regions gain access to this form of entertainment.



The wide adoption of smart phones globally and the free-to-play business model on those platforms has increased the total addressable audience for gaming significantly by introducing gaming to new age groups and new regions and allowing gaming to occur more widely outside the home. Mobile gaming is estimated to be larger than console and PC gaming, and continues to grow at a significant rate. King is a leading developer of mobile and free-to-play games and our other business units have mobile efforts underway that present the opportunity for us to expand the reach of, and drive additional player investment from, our franchises.



Opportunities to Expand Franchises Outside of Games



Our fans spend significant time investing in our franchises through purchases of our game content, whether through purchases of full games or downloadable content or via microtransactions. Given the passion our players have for our franchises, we believe there are emerging opportunities to drive additional engagement and investment in our franchises outside of games. Our efforts to build these adjacent opportunities are still relatively nascent, but we view them as potentially significant sources of future revenues.



For example, as part of our efforts to take advantage of esports opportunities, during 2017, we completed the sale of 12 teams for the Overwatch League, which concluded its inaugural season in July 2018. During 2018, we also completed the sale of eight additional teams for the Overwatch League, which are competing in the league’s second season that began in February 2019. Additionally, as recently announced, we have sold the first five teams for our professional Call of Duty city-based league.



Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Franchises



The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive entertainment industry. According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 38% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2018. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenues historically has been derived from video games based on a few popular franchises, and these video games have been responsible for a disproportionately high percentage of our profits. For example, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, and World of Warcraft franchises, collectively, accounted for 58% of our consolidated net revenues—and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income—for 2018.



35

In addition to investing in, and developing sequels and content for, our top franchises, we are continually exploring additional ways to expand those franchises. Further, while there is no guarantee of success, we invest in new properties in an effort to develop future top franchises. For example, in 2014, we released Hearthstone, and in 2016, we released Overwatch. Additionally, to diversify our portfolio of key franchises and increase our presence on the mobile platform, in 2016, we acquired King.



Overall, we do expect that a limited number of popular franchises will continue to produce a disproportionately high percentage of our, and the industry’s, revenues and profits in the near future. Accordingly, our ability to maintain our top franchises and our ability to successfully compete against our competitors’ top franchises can significantly impact our performance.



Recurring Revenue Business Models



Increased consumer online connectivity has allowed us to offer players new investment opportunities and to shift our business further towards a more consistently recurring and year-round model. Offering downloadable content and microtransactions, in addition to full games, allows our players to access and invest in new content throughout the year. This incremental content not only provides additional high-margin revenues, it can also increase player engagement. Also, mobile games, and free-to-play games more broadly, are generally less seasonal than games developed primarily for the console or PC platforms.



36

Consolidated Statements of Operations Data



The following table sets forth condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated (amounts in millions) and as a percentage of total net revenues, except for cost of revenues, which are presented as a percentage of associated revenues:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Consolidated Net Revenues



The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues and the increase (decrease) in deferred net revenues recognized (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



37

Consolidated Net Revenues



The decrease in consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $109 million in revenues recognized from Activision, primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed. The decrease in revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise was partially offset by revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018.



Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized



The decrease in net deferred revenues recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $114 million in net deferred revenues recognized from Activision, primarily due to lower net deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, partially offset by higher net deferred revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops 4, which was released in October 2018, as compared to Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017.



The decrease from Activision was partially offset by an increase of $89 million in net deferred revenues recognized from Blizzard, due to higher net deferred revenues recognized for World of Warcraft, driven by World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth, which was released in August 2018, with no comparable release in 2017.



Foreign Exchange Impact



Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $66 million on our consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.



Operating Segment Results



Currently, we have three reportable segments—Activision, Blizzard, and King. Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”). The CODM reviews segment performance exclusive of: the impact of the change in deferred revenues and related cost of revenues with respect to certain of our online-enabled games; share-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets as a result of purchase price accounting; fees and other expenses (including legal fees, expenses, and accruals) related to acquisitions, associated integration activities, and financings; certain restructuring and related costs; and certain other non-cash charges. The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto.



Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organizational structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information. We do not aggregate operating segments.



38

Information on reportable segment net revenues and operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, are presented below (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.



Reconciliations of total segment net revenues and total segment operating income to consolidated net revenues and consolidated income before income tax expense are presented in the table below (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes other income and expenses from operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our Studios and Distribution businesses. Also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses.



(2)Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.



(3)Reflects restructuring initiatives, primarily severance and other restructuring-related costs.



39

Segment Net Revenues



Activision



Activision’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, reflecting revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018, which were offset by:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•lower revenues from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles.



Blizzard



The decrease in Blizzard’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•lower revenues from Overwatch, primarily driven by lower in-game purchases; and



•lower revenues from Hearthstone.



King



King’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018. 



Segment Income from Operations



Activision



The decrease in Activision’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, despite revenues being comparable, as discussed above, was primarily due to: 



•higher cost of revenues, primarily driven by the March 2019 release of Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, with no comparable release in 2018; and 



•an increase in bad debt provisions. 



The decrease is partially offset by lower operating costs associated with the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed.



Blizzard



The decrease in Blizzard’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues, as discussed above. The decrease is partially offset by: 



•lower sales and marketing spend, primarily driven by the Overwatch League; and



•lower personnel costs.



40

King



The decrease in King’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to higher sales and marketing costs driven by the Candy Crush franchise.



Foreign Exchange Impact



Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact of $42 million on reportable segment net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the same period in the previous year. The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.



Consolidated Results



Net Revenues by Distribution Channel



The following table details our consolidated net revenues by distribution channel (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Net revenues from “Digital online channels” include revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products, as well as licensing royalties.



(2) Net revenues from “Other” include revenues from our Studios and Distribution businesses, as well as revenues from MLG and the Overwatch League.



Digital Online Channel Net Revenues



The decrease in net revenues from digital online channels for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to:



•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed; and 



•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, primarily driven by lower in-game purchases. 



The decrease was partially offset by:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018.



41

Retail Channel Net Revenues



The decrease in net revenues from retail channels for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to:



•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease was partially offset by revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018.



Net Revenues by Geographic Region



The following table details our consolidated net revenues by geographic region (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) “EMEA” consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions.



Americas



The decrease in net revenues from the Americas region for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed. The decrease was partially offset by:



•revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018; and 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



EMEA



The decrease in net revenues from the EMEA region for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise. The decrease was partially offset by revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018.



Asia Pacific



The increase in net revenues from the Asia Pacific region for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Black Ops 4, which was released in October 2018, as compared to Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, partially offset by lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise.



42

Net Revenues by Platform



The following table details our consolidated net revenues by platform (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Net revenues from “Mobile and ancillary” include revenues from mobile devices, as well as non-platform-specific game-related revenues, such as standalone sales of toys and accessories from our Skylanders® franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories.



(2)Net revenues from “Other” include revenues from our Studios and Distribution businesses, as well as revenues from MLG and the Overwatch League.



Console



The decrease in net revenues from the console platform for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to:



•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed; and



•lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty franchise catalog titles. 



The decrease was partially offset by revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018.



PC



The decrease in net revenues from the PC platform for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to:



•lower revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise; and 



•lower revenues recognized from Overwatch. 



The decrease was partially offset by:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•revenues from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018.



Mobile and Ancillary



Net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended March 31, 2019, were roughly equal to net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018.



43

Costs and Expenses



Cost of Revenues



The following table details the components of cost of revenues in dollars (amounts in millions) and as a percentage of associated net revenues:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cost of Revenues—Product Sales:



The decrease in product costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was in line with the decrease in product sales.



The decrease in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $42 million in software amortization and royalties from Activision, driven by the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed. The decrease in software amortization and royalties from the Destiny franchise was partially offset by: 



•higher software amortization and royalties for Call of Duty: Black Ops 4, which was released in October 2018, as compared to Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017; and



•software amortization and royalties from Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice, which was released in March 2019, with no comparable release in 2018.



Cost of Revenues—Subscription, Licensing, and Other Revenues:



The decrease in game operations and distribution costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $19 million in digital storefront fees (e.g. fees retained by Apple and Google for our sales on their platforms) and payment processor fees.



The decrease in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to subscription, licensing, and other revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a decrease of $20 million in amortization of internally-developed franchise intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisition of King.



Product Development (amounts in millions) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



44

The decrease in product development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily driven by lower product development costs from the Destiny franchise, the publishing rights to which we sold to Bungie in December 2018, as previously disclosed.



Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to:



•a decrease of $44 million in amortization of the customer base intangible asset acquired as part of our acquisition of King, as the asset was fully amortized during the first quarter of 2018; and



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease was partially offset by an increase in bad debt provisions.



General and Administrative (amounts in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to a $15 million decrease in personnel costs.



Restructuring and related costs (amounts in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On February 12, 2019, the Company committed to a Board-authorized restructuring plan under which we are refocusing our resources on our largest opportunities and removing unnecessary levels of complexity and duplication from certain parts of our business. The costs incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2019, relate primarily to severance costs and the write-downs of assets from canceled projects. Refer to Note 14 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion.



Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



45

The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to an $18 million decrease in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs associated with our debt obligations due to our lower total debt outstanding as a result of our debt redemptions and repayment activities during 2018.



Income Tax Expense (amounts in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The income tax expense of $120 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, reflects an effective tax rate of 21%, which is higher than the effective tax rate of 12% for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase is primarily due to lower excess tax benefits from share-based payments and higher foreign earnings subject to U.S. tax, partially offset by changes in uncertain tax positions.



The effective tax rate of 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is consistent with the U.S. statutory rate of 21%. This reflects the impact of our foreign earnings being taxed below the U.S. statutory rate, offset by changes in uncertain tax positions.



Our effective tax rate could be different from the statutory U.S. income tax rate due to the effect of state and local income taxes, tax rates that apply to our foreign income (including U.S. tax on foreign income), research and development credits, and certain nondeductible expenses. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter based on recurring and nonrecurring factors including, but not limited to: variations in the estimated and actual level of pre-tax income or loss by jurisdiction; changes in enacted tax laws and regulations, and interpretations thereof, including with respect to tax credits and state and local income taxes; developments in tax audits and other matters; recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies from share-based payments; and certain nondeductible expenses. Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change.



Further information about our income taxes is provided in Note 16 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths. In the near term, we expect our business and financial condition to remain strong and to continue to generate significant operating cash flows, which, we believe, in combination with our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $4.8 billion, our access to capital, and the availability of our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our operational and financing requirements for the next 12 months. Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as our anticipated dividend payments, share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities.



As of March 31, 2019, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries was $1.7 billion, as compared to $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2018. These cash balances are generally available for use in the U.S., subject in some cases to certain restrictions.



Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the fourth quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related sales patterns. We consider, on a continuing basis, various transactions to increase shareholder value and enhance our business results, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, share repurchases, and other structural changes. These transactions may result in future cash proceeds or payments.



46

Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities



The primary driver of net cash flows associated with our operating activities is the collection of customer receivables generated from the sale of our products and services. These collections are typically partially offset by: payments to vendors for the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of our products; payments for customer service support for our consumers; payments to third-party developers and intellectual property holders; payments for interest on our debt; payments for software development; payments for tax liabilities; and payments to our workforce.



Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $450 million, as compared to $529 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower net income and a decrease in non-cash adjustments to net income.



Net Cash Used in Investing Activities 



The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions.



Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $5 million, as compared to $51 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to cash flow activities associated with available-for-sale investments, for which, in the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were $13 million of cash proceeds from the maturities of available-for-sale investments as compared to purchases of available-for-sale investments of $20 million in the prior-year period. Additionally, we had lower capital expenditures of $18 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $31 million in the prior-year period.



Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities 



The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt and transactions involving our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock to employees upon the exercise of stock options, as well as the payment of dividends.



Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $24 million, as compared to $8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase was due to lower tax payments made for net share settlements on restricted stock units of $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $39 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, partially offset by lower proceeds from stock option exercises of $30 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to $47 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.



47

Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes



Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $2 million on our cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash for the three months ended March 31, 2019, as compared to a positive impact of $18 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The change was primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.



Debt



As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our total outstanding debt was $2.7 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 3.18%.



A summary of our outstanding debt is as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Refer to Note 11 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further disclosures regarding our debt obligations.



Dividends



On February 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share. Such dividend is payable on May 9, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 28, 2019. We have recorded $283 million of dividends payable in “Accrued expenses and other liabilities” on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019.



Capital Expenditures



For the year ending December 31, 2019, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $135 million, primarily for leasehold improvements, computer hardware, and software purchases. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, capital expenditures were $18 million.



48

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



At each of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, Activision Blizzard had no significant relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial parties, often referred to as “structured finance” or “special purpose” entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes, that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that they are made. These estimates, judgments, and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments, or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments, and assumptions, and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results, include the following:



•Revenue Recognition;



•Income Taxes;



•Allowances for Returns and Price Protection;



•Software Development Costs;



•Fair Value Estimates (including Business Combinations and Assessment of Impairment of Assets); and



•Share-Based Payments.



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates. Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, for a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



Below are recently issued accounting pronouncements that were most significant to our accounting policy activities. For a detailed discussion of all relevant recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



Leases



As noted in Note 2 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we adopted the new lease accounting standard effective January 1, 2019. We elected to apply an optional adoption method, which uses the effective date as the initial date of application on transition with no retrospective adjustments to prior periods. Additionally, we elected to apply the package of transition practical expedients which permitted us to, among other things, (1) not reassess if existing contracts contained leases under the new lease accounting standard and (2) carry forward our historical lease classifications.



For additional discussion regarding the impact of our adoption of the new lease accounting standard to our condensed consolidated balance sheet, see Note 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



49

