 Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



 For a description of the Company’s critical accounting policies and an understanding of the significant factors that influenced the Company’s performance during the quarter ended March 30, 2019, this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.  



 There are references to the impact of foreign currency translation in the discussion of the Company’s results of operations. When the U.S. Dollar strengthens and the stronger exchange rates of the current year are used to translate the results of operations of Avnet’s subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies, the resulting impact is a decrease in U.S. Dollars of reported results. Conversely, when the U.S. Dollar weakens and the weaker exchange rates of the current year are used to translate the results of operations of Avnet’s subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies, the resulting impact is an increase in U.S. Dollars of reported results. In the discussion that follows, results excluding this impact, primarily for subsidiaries in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”) and Asia/Pacific, are referred to as “constant currency.”  



 In addition to disclosing financial results that are determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (“GAAP”), the Company also discloses certain non-GAAP financial information, including:  



   ·    Sales adjusted for certain items that impact the year-over-year analysis, which includes the impact of certain acquisitions by adjusting Avnet’s prior periods to include the sales of acquired businesses, as if the acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the earliest period presented. Sales taking into account these adjustments are referred to as “organic sales.” 



   ·    Operating income excluding (i) restructuring, integration and other expenses (see Restructuring, Integration and Other Expenses in this MD&A), (ii) goodwill impairment expense and (iii) amortization of acquired intangible assets and other. Operating income excluding such amounts is referred to as “adjusted operating income.” 



 The reconciliation of operating income to adjusted operating income is presented in the following table:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 ___________  



 * May not foot due to rounding  



 Management believes that providing this additional information is useful to readers to better assess and understand operating performance, especially when comparing results with prior periods or forecasting performance for future periods, primarily because management typically monitors the business both including and excluding these adjustments to GAAP results. Management also uses these non-GAAP measures to establish operational goals and, in many cases, for measuring performance for compensation purposes. However, any analysis of results on a non-GAAP basis should be used as a complement to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  



 21  



 Table of Contents  



 OVERVIEW  



 Organization  



 Avnet, Inc. (the “Company” or “Avnet”), is a global technology solutions company with an extensive ecosystem delivering design, product, marketing and supply chain expertise for customers at every stage of the product lifecycle. Avnet transforms ideas into intelligent solutions, reducing the time, cost and complexities of bringing products to market around the world. Founded in 1921 and incorporated in New York in 1955, the Company works with over 1,400 technology suppliers to serve 2.1 million customers in more than 140 countries.  



 Avnet has two primary operating groups — Electronic Components (“EC”) and Premier Farnell (“Farnell”). Both operating groups have operations in each of the three major economic regions of the world: the Americas, EMEA and Asia. A summary of each operating group is provided in Note 13, “Segment information” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 Results of Operations  



 Executive Summary  



 Sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $4.70 billion, a decline of 2.0%, or $96.3 million, from the prior year third quarter sales of $4.80 billion. In constant currency, sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 1.2% over the prior year third quarter as growth in the Company’s Americas and EMEA regions of 1.6% and 3.8%, respectively, were partially offset by a decline in Asia of 2.0%.   



 Sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 were $14.84 billion, an increase of $860.0 million or 6.2% as compared to sales of $13.98 billion in the first nine month of fiscal 2018. In constant currency, sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 7.9% over the prior year as all regions experienced organic sales growth.  



 Gross profit margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 35 basis points compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as declines in EC gross profit margin were partially offset by improvements at Farnell. EC gross profit margin decreased year over year and Farnell gross profit margin increased year over year primarily driven by changes in product mix.  



 Avnet operating income margin was 3.3% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared with a 1.2% operating loss margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Both periods included amortization and restructuring, integration and other expenses. The third quarter of fiscal 2018 also included goodwill impairment expense. Excluding these expenses from both periods, adjusted operating income margin was 3.8% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 3.6% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The increase in operating income margin is primarily due to the reduction in operating expenses from the Company’s restructuring and integration efforts, partially offset by a decline in sales and gross profit margin.  



 22  



 Table of Contents  



 Sales  



 The following tables present reported and organic sales growth rates between fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019.   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 ___________  



 (1) The acquisition of Softweb occurred at the end of December 2018 and sales from Softweb are not material for Organic sales measurement purposes.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 ___________  



 (1) The acquisition of Softweb occurred at the end of December 2018 and sales from Softweb are not material for Organic sales measurement purposes.   



 Sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $4.70 billion, a decrease of 2.0%, or $96.3 million, from the prior year third quarter sales of $4.80 billion. Sales in constant currency grew 1.2% over the prior year third quarter as a result of growth in the Company’s Americas and EMEA regions of 1.6% and 3.8%, respectively, partially offset by declines in Asia of 2.0%.  



 Sales in the Company’s EC segment of $4.33 billion in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $72.8 million or 1.7% from the prior year third quarter sales of $4.40 billion. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, EC sales increased 1.5% year-over-year primarily due to increases in sales in EC EMEA and EC Americas, partially offset by declines in Asia.   



 23  



 Table of Contents  



 Farnell sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $367.5 million, a decrease of $23.5 million or 6.0% from the prior year third quarter sales of $391.0 million. Farnell sales in constant currency declined 1.5% year over year primarily driven by uncertainties related to the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union (Brexit) impacting market demand.  



 Sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 were $14.84 billion, an increase of 6.2% as compared to sales of $13.98 billion for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to sales growth at both EC and Farnell. Sales in constant currency increased by 7.9% year over year with all regions contributing to the organic growth.   



 As discussed in Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 did not have a material impact on the amounts of sales reported or the comparability of sales and gross profit margins year over year for all periods presented in the consolidated statements of operations.  



 Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margins  



 Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $624.2 million, a decrease of $29.3 million, or 4.5%, from the third quarter of fiscal 2018 gross profit of $653.5 million driven by the 2.0% decrease in sales and the decline in gross profit margin. Gross profit margin decreased 35 basis points to 13.3% from the third quarter of fiscal 2018 gross profit margin of 13.6%. The decrease in gross profit margins resulted from year over year decreases in the Company’s EMEA and Asia regions, partially offset by an increase in the Americas.   



 EC gross profit and gross profit margin for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 4.3% and approximately 30 basis points, respectively, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Farnell gross profit margin increased 35 basis points in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily driven by product mix.   



 Gross profit and gross margins were $1.89 billion and 12.7%, respectively, for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared with $1.87 billion and 13.4%, respectively, for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increased mix of sales coming from the lower-margin Asia region and from the impact of supplier program changes.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  



 Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A expenses”) were $468.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, a decrease of $37.3 million, or 7.4%, from the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The year-over-year decrease in SG&A expenses was primarily due to a reduction of expenses resulting from management’s restructuring programs, the impact of changes in foreign currency translation rates year over year and due to lower Corporate costs, partially offset by an increase as a result of sales volume growth.  



 Metrics that management monitors with respect to its operating expenses are SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales and as a percentage of gross profit. In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales were 10.0% and as a percentage of gross profit were 75.0%, as compared with 10.5% and 77.3%, respectively, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.   



 SG&A expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 were $1.42 billion, or 9.5% of sales, as compared with $1.49 billion, or 10.7% of sales, in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. SG&A expenses were 74.8% of gross profit in the first nine months of 2019 as compared with 79.8% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. The year-over-year decrease in SG&A expenses was primarily due to the reduction of expenses resulting from management’s restructuring programs, the impact of changes in foreign currency translation year over year and due to lower Corporate costs, partially offset by an increase as a result of sales volume growth.  



 Goodwill Impairment Expense  



 During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company impaired all of the goodwill in the Americas reporting unit and recorded $181.4 million of goodwill impairment expense.  



 24  



 Table of Contents  



 The Company evaluates each quarter if facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units is less than their carrying value, which would require the Company to perform an interim goodwill impairment test. Indicators the Company evaluates to determine whether an interim goodwill impairment test is necessary include, but are not limited to, (i) a sustained decrease in share price or market capitalization as of any fiscal quarter end, (ii) changes in the macroeconomic or industry environments, (iii) the results of and the amount of time passed since the last goodwill impairment test and (iv) the long-term expected financial performance of its reporting units.   



 Each fiscal year, during the fiscal fourth quarter, the Company is required to perform an annual goodwill impairment test. The annual goodwill impairment testing typically includes consideration of the Company’s annual long-term planning as well as current market conditions when determining whether there is a goodwill impairment for any of the Company’s reporting units. The results of a quantitative annual goodwill impairment test may result in the impairment of goodwill at one or more of the Company’s reporting units even if a qualitative assessment concludes that goodwill is not impaired.  



 Restructuring, Integration and Other Expenses  



 As a result of management’s focus on improving operating efficiencies and further integrating the acquisition of Farnell, the Company has incurred certain restructuring costs. These costs also related to the continued transformation of the Company’s information technology, distribution center footprint and business operations including the re-prioritization of its information technology initiatives and resources. In addition, the Company incurred integration, accelerated depreciation and other costs. Integration costs are primarily related to the integration of acquired businesses including Farnell, the integration of certain regional and global businesses including Avnet after the sale of the TS business, and incremental costs incurred as part of the consolidation, relocation, sale and closure of warehouse and office facilities. Accelerated depreciation relates to the incremental depreciation expense incurred related to the shortening of the estimated useful life for certain information technology assets and from the integration of Farnell. Other costs consist primarily of any other miscellaneous costs that relate to restructuring, integration and other expenses including acquisition related costs and a gain on the sale of real estate.  



 The Company recorded restructuring, integration and other expenses of $2.9 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The Company recorded $13.4 million of restructuring costs in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, which are expected to provide approximately $12.0 million in annual operating expense savings once such restructuring actions are completed. Included in the restructuring costs was severance costs of $7.8 million and a $5.4 million non-cash impairment expense related to information technology software. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company also incurred integration costs of $2.4 million, accelerated depreciation expense of $2.7 million, partially offset by a gain on the sale of real estate of $15.1 million and a reversal of $0.5 million for changes in estimates for costs associated with prior year restructuring actions. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration and other expenses were $2.6 million and $0.02 per share on a diluted basis.  



 During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred restructuring costs of $76.5 million, integration costs of $8.7 million, accelerated depreciation of $8.6 million, other costs of $2.3 million, partially offset by a gain on the sale of real estate of $15.1 million and reversals of $1.0 million for changes in estimates for costs associated with prior year restructuring actions. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration and other expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $60.7 million and $0.54 per share on a diluted basis.  



 Comparatively, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, restructuring, integration and other expenses were $25.1 million. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration, and other expenses was $19.4 million and $0.16 per share on a diluted basis.   



 In the first nine months of fiscal 2018, restructuring, integration and other expenses was $108.3 million. The after tax impact of restructuring, integration and other expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $76.7 million and $0.63 per share on a diluted basis.  



 See Note 14 “Restructuring expenses” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.   



 25  



 Table of Contents  



 Operating Income (Loss)  



 Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $153.1 million, an increase of $211.6 million, or 361.7%, from the third quarter of fiscal 2018 operating loss of $58.5 million. The year over year increase in operating income was primarily driven by the reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses and no goodwill impairment expense as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by the decline in sales and gross profit margin. Adjusted operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $178.1 million, an increase of $7.3 million, or 4.3%, from the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The year over year increase in adjusted operating income was primarily driven by the reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses as compared to the prior year third quarter, partially offset by the decline in sales and gross profit margin.  



 EC operating income margin decreased 4 basis points year over year to 3.5% and Farnell operating income margin increased 164 basis points year over year to 12.4%.   



 Operating income for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $396.0 million, or 2.7% of consolidated sales, as compared with operating income of $87.7 million, or 0.6% of consolidated sales in the first nine months of 2018. Adjusted operating income for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $539.5 million, or 3.6% of consolidated sales, as compared with adjusted operating income of $447.6 million, or 3.2% of consolidated sales in the first nine months of 2018.  



 Interest and Other Financing Expenses, Net and Other Income, Net  



 Interest and other financing expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $36.3 million, an increase of $12.8 million or 54.7%, as compared with interest and other financing expenses of $23.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Interest and other financing expenses in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $100.1 million, an increase of $31.8 million or 46.6%, as compared with interest and other financing expenses of $68.3 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. The increase in interest and other financing expenses in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily related to increased expenses in foreign regions to finance working capital needs including increases in average debt outstanding and from lower interest income from investments in cash equivalents between the fiscal years.  



 During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had $8.7 million of other income as compared with $9.9 million of other income in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company had $9.4 million of other income as compared with $32.1 million of other income in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. In the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company had other income related to the Company’s pension plans, partially offset by foreign currency losses.  



 Income Tax Expense  



 The Company’s effective tax rate on its income from continuing operations before taxes was 24.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company’s effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) an increase due to the impact from recently issued U.S. income tax regulations, partially offset by (ii) decreases in unrecognized tax benefits due to the expiration of the statute of limitations in various jurisdictions.  



 During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate on its loss from continuing operations before taxes of 338.0% was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability expense (“the transition tax”) estimate recorded under the requirements of U.S. federal government enacted tax legislation (the “Act”) and (ii) the goodwill impairment discussed in Note 4, which was not tax deductible, partially offset primarily by (iii) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions and (iv) the release of reserves due to the expiration of the statute of limitations in various jurisdictions.  



 For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company’s effective tax rate on its income from continuing operations before taxes was 29.5%. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) an adjustment to the transition tax recorded under the requirements of the Act, (ii) net increases in unrecognized tax benefits, and (iii) an increase due to the impact from recently issued U.S. income tax regulations, partially offset by (iv) 



 26  



 Table of Contents  



an adjustment to the deferred tax impacts of the Act, (v) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions, and (vi) the release of valuation allowances against deferred tax assets that were deemed to be realizable.  



 During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate on its income from continuing operations before taxes of 489.2% was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) the transition tax expense recorded under the requirements of the Act, (ii) the goodwill impairment, which was not tax deductible, and (iii) the tax expense created from remeasuring net deferred tax assets as a result of applying the requirements of the Act, partially offset primarily by (iv) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions and (v) the release of reserves due to the expiration of the statute of limitations in various jurisdictions.   



 See Note 8 “Income taxes” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 Loss from Discontinued Operations  



 Loss from discontinued operations was $6.9 million and $7.1 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 primarily related to additional income tax expenses associated with the TS business.  



 Loss from discontinued operations was $4.5 million and $14.4 million in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, primarily as a result of settlement losses associated with the Company’s pension plan due to former TS business employees requesting and receiving distributions from the Company’s pension plan during fiscal 2018.   



 Net Income (Loss)  



 As a result of the factors described in the preceding sections of this MD&A, the Company’s net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $88.0 million, or $0.81 per share on a diluted basis, as compared with $320.1 million of net loss, or $2.68 per share on a diluted basis, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  



 As a result of the factors described in the preceding sections of this MD&A, the Company’s net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $208.2 million, or $1.85 per share on a diluted basis, as compared with $215.0 million of net loss, or $1.78 per share on a diluted basis, in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  



 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  



 Cash Flow  



 Cash Flow from Operating Activities  



 During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company generated $256.4 million of cash from its operating activities from continuing operations compared to $17.9 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. These operating cash flows were comprised of: (i) cash flow generated from net income from continuing operations, adjusted for the impact of non-cash and other items, which includes depreciation and amortization expenses, impairment expenses, deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense and other non-cash items (including provisions for doubtful accounts and net periodic pension costs) and (ii) cash flows used for, or generated from, working capital and other, excluding cash and cash equivalents. Cash used for working capital and other was $206.9 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, including increases in inventories of $125.4 million and decreases in accounts payable of $399.5 million and accrued expenses and other of $118.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $436.4 million. The Company utilized cash to invest in inventory primarily to support sales growth and for certain investments in additional inventories at Farnell. Comparatively, cash used for working capital and other was $121.5 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, including increases in inventories of $337.9 million and accounts receivable of $98.1 million. The increase in cash used for inventories and accounts receivable, was partially offset by increases in accounts payable of $180.7 million and accrued expenses and other of $133.8 million.  



 27  



 Table of Contents  



 The Company also used $56.3 million of cash from discontinued operations operating activities related to income taxes paid on the gain from the sale of the TS business during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  



 Cash Flow from Financing Activities  



 During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company received net proceeds of $342.0 million under the accounts receivable securitization program and $85.0 million from borrowings of various bank credit facilities and repaid $11.4 million under the Credit Facility. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company paid dividends on common stock of $66.2 million and repurchased $447.9 million of common stock. Additionally, included in other, net is approximately $18.7 million of cash received from the exercises of stock options.   



 During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company made net repayments of $47.0 million under the accounts receivable securitization program. Additionally, the Company repaid $44.3 million from borrowings of various bank credit facilities and $100.0 million under the Credit Facility. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company paid dividends on common stock of $66.2 million and repurchased $209.5 million of common stock.  



 Cash Flow from Investing Activities  



 During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company used $101.4 million for capital expenditures primarily related to warehouse and facilities, computer hardware and software purchases and information technology system development costs compared to $112.2 million for capital expenditures in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company used $66.5 million of cash for acquisitions, which is net of the cash acquired compared to $18.6 million of cash for acquisitions, which is net of cash acquired in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Additionally, included in other, net is $41.0 million of cash received from the sale of real estate in EMEA during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.  



 During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company received $123.5 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations from the sale of the TS business. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company generated $153.9 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations, substantially all driven by the sale of marketable securities obtained through the sale of the TS business.  



 Contractual Obligations  



 For a detailed description of the Company’s long-term debt and lease commitments for the next five years and thereafter, see Long-Term Contractual Obligations appearing in Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018. With the exception of the Company’s debt transactions discussed herein, there are no material changes to this information outside of normal borrowings and repayments of long-term debt and operating lease payments. The Company does not currently have any material non-cancellable commitments for capital expenditures or inventory purchases.  



 Financing Transactions  



 See Note 5, “Debt” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on financing transactions including the Credit Facility, the Securitization Program, and other outstanding debt as of March 30, 2019. The Company was in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Facility and the Securitization Program as of March 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.  



 The Company has various lines of credit, financing arrangements and other forms of bank debt in the U.S. and various foreign locations to fund the short-term working capital, foreign exchange, overdraft and letter of credit needs of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Outstanding borrowings under such forms of debt at the end of third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.8 million.  



 28  



 Table of Contents  



 As an alternative form of financing outside of the United States, the Company sells certain of its trade accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to third-party financial institutions pursuant to factoring agreements. The Company accounts for these transactions as sales of receivables and presents cash proceeds as cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. Factoring fees for the sales of receivables are recorded within “Interest and other financing expenses, net” and were not material.  



 Liquidity  



 The Company held cash and cash equivalents of $725.3 million as of March 30, 2019, of which $660.7 million was held outside the United States. As of June 30, 2018, the Company held cash and cash equivalents of $621.1 million, of which $545.3 million was held outside of the United States.  



 As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had a combined total borrowing capacity of $1.75 billion under the Credit Facility and the Securitization Program. There were $85.6 million in borrowings outstanding and $3.0 million in letters of credit issued under the Credit Facility and $447.0 million in borrowings outstanding under the Securitization Program, resulting in approximately $1.21 billion of total availability as of March 30, 2019. Availability under the Securitization Program is subject to the Company having sufficient eligible trade accounts receivable to support desired borrowings. The Company currently expects to utilize availability under credit facilities to support working capital and other general corporate purposes to the extent such incremental borrowings do not impact the Company’s investment grade credit rating. During the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company had an average daily balance outstanding of approximately $29.8 million and $71.2 million, respectively, under the Credit Facility and approximately $456.0 million and $259.0 million, respectively, under the Securitization Program. During the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company had an average daily balance outstanding of approximately $0.6 million and $3.0 million, respectively, under the Credit Facility and approximately $298.0 million and $230.0 million, respectively, under the Securitization Program.  



 During periods of weakening demand in the electronic components industry, the Company typically generates cash from operating activities. Conversely, the Company is more likely to use operating cash flows for working capital requirements during periods of higher growth. The Company generated $492.0 million in cash flows from operating activities over the trailing four fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2019 from continuing operations.   



 Liquidity is subject to many factors, such as normal business operations as well as general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors that are beyond the Company’s control. To the extent the cash balances held in foreign locations cannot be remitted back to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner, those cash balances are generally used for ongoing working capital, capital expenditure needs and to support acquisitions, and are currently expected to be permanently reinvested outside the U.S. The Company is still evaluating the impact of repatriating any additional foreign cash as a result of the Act. In addition, local government regulations may restrict the Company’s ability to move funds among various locations under certain circumstances. Management does not believe such restrictions would limit the Company’s ability to pursue its intended business strategy. Management believes that Avnet’s available borrowing capacity including capacity for the non-recourse sale of accounts receivable and the Company’s expected ability to generate operating cash flows in the future will be sufficient to meet its future liquidity needs. The Company also may issue debt or equity securities in the future and management believes the Company will have adequate access to the capital markets, if needed.  



 Historically the Company has made, and expects to continue to make, strategic investments through acquisition activity to the extent the investments strengthen Avnet’s competitive position, further its business strategies and meet management’s return on capital thresholds. The Company also expects to make capital expenditures, including expenditures for warehouse facilities and information technology related tools and systems. Additionally, as the Company integrates Farnell, the Company expects to use cash for restructuring, integration and other expenses.  



 29  



 Table of Contents  



 In addition to continuing to make investments in acquisitions, as of March 30, 2019, the Company may repurchase up to an aggregate of $322.9 million of shares of the Company’s common stock through a $2.45 billion share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors. The Company may repurchase stock from time to time at the discretion of management, subject to strategic considerations, market conditions and other factors. The Company may terminate or limit the share repurchase program at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors such as share price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and prevailing market conditions. Additionally, the Company currently expects to pay quarterly cash dividends on shares of its common stock, subject to approval of the Board of Directors. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Board of Directors approved a dividend of $0.20 per share, which resulted in $21.5 million of dividend payments during the quarter.   



 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 See Note 1, “Basis of presentation and new accounting pronouncements” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements.  



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The Company’s Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to $2.45 billion of the Company’s common stock under the Company’s share repurchase program. The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the third quarter of fiscal 2019, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 32  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 6.Exhibits  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   *    Filed herewith.   



   **    Furnished herewith. The information in these exhibits shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to liability under that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.    



 33  



 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURE  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  



 Date: April 26, 2019  



        AVNET, INC.   



        By:    /s/ THOMAS LIGUORI   



             Thomas Liguori   



             Chief Financial Officer    



 34
