 PART II  



 OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1.Legal Proceedings  



 As a result primarily of certain former manufacturing operations, the Company has incurred and may have future liability under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and exposure to, and the handling, storage and disposal of, hazardous substances. For example, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and similar state laws, the Company is and may be liable for the costs of cleaning up environmental contamination on or from certain of its current or former properties, and at off-site locations where the Company disposed of wastes in the past. Such laws may impose joint and several liability. Typically, however, the costs for clean up at such sites are allocated among potentially responsible parties based upon each party’s relative contribution to the contamination, and other factors.  



 Pursuant to SEC regulations, including but not limited to Item 103 of Regulation S-K, the Company regularly assesses the status of and developments in pending environmental and other compliance related legal proceedings to determine whether any such proceedings should be identified specifically in this discussion of legal proceedings, and has concluded that no particular pending legal proceeding requires public disclosure. Based on the information known to date, management believes that the Company has appropriately accrued in its consolidated financial statements for its share of the estimable costs of environmental and other compliance related matters.  



 The Company is also currently subject to various pending and potential legal matters and investigations relating to compliance with governmental laws and regulations, including import/export and environmental matters. The Company currently believes that the resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or liquidity, but could possibly be material to its results of operations in any one reporting period.  



 Item 1A.Risk Factors  



 This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company. You can find many of these statements by looking for words like “believes,” “plans,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “should,” “will,” “may,” “estimates” or similar expressions in this Quarterly Report or in documents incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. You should understand that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, could affect the Company’s future results of operations, and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements:  



   ·    competitive pressures among distributors of electronic components; 



   ·    an industry down-cycle in semiconductors; 



   ·    relationships with key suppliers and allocations of products by suppliers; 



   ·    risks relating to the Company’s international sales and operations, including risks relating to the ability to repatriate cash, foreign currency fluctuations, duties and taxes, and compliance with international and U.S. laws; 



   ·    risks relating to acquisitions, divestitures and investments; 



   ·    adverse effects on the Company’s supply chain, shipping costs, third-party service providers, customers and suppliers, including as a result of issues caused by natural and weather-related disasters; 



 30  



 Table of Contents  



   ·    risks related to cyber-attacks and the Company’s information systems, including related to current or future implementations; 



   ·    general economic and business conditions (domestic, foreign and global) affecting the Company’s operations and financial performance and, indirectly, the Company’s credit ratings, debt covenant compliance, and liquidity and access to financing;  



   ·    geopolitical events, including the uncertainty caused by the United Kingdom’s planned exit from the European Union commonly referred to as “Brexit.” While the specific terms and impact of Brexit are not yet known, Brexit may adversely impact the United Kingdom and/or the European Union and therefore may adversely impact the Company’s operations and financial condition. The Company is monitoring the Brexit negotiations and developing contingency plans, including changes to its logistics operations and shipment routes and preparing for changes in trade facilitation regulations; and 



   ·    legislative or regulatory changes affecting the Company’s businesses. 



 Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which that statement is made. Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made.  



 The discussion of the Company’s business and operations should be read together with the risk factors contained in Item 1A of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, which describe various risks and uncertainties to which the Company is or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties have the potential to affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. As of December 29, 2018, there have been no material changes to the risk factors set forth in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.  



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The Company’s Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to $2.45 billion of the Company’s common stock under the Company’s share repurchase program. The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the second quarter of fiscal 2019, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 31  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 6.Exhibits  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   *    Filed herewith.   



   **    Furnished herewith. The information in these exhibits shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to liability under that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.    



 32  



 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURE  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  



 Date: January 25, 2019  



        AVNET, INC.   



        By:    /s/ THOMAS LIGUORI   



             Thomas Liguori   



             Chief Financial Officer    



 33
