Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) and its subsidiaries as of May 31, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report. Also, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 26, 2017 (“Form 10-K”). 



Overview



Company



Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”). The Company has its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia.



The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”). The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations. As of May 31, 2018, the Company operates 20 manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with three warehouses to serve its extensive customer base. 



The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions, including the following transactions: 



On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, the Company acquired IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”). IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.



On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, the Company acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”). Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings. 



No acquisitions were completed during fiscal 2017.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.



The Company currently expects to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2018. For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, $32.2 million had been invested, primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities. 



In March 2018, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of the Company's common stock. As of May 31, 2018, 0.8 million shares had been purchased under this authorization. The Company expects to repurchase the remaining shares available for repurchase on an opportunistic basis. The Company has repurchased a total of 2.0 million shares in fiscal 2018. 



The Company's short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and 



26

interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding possible acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing up to 5.2 million shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board. Management believes that the Company will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on its cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under recently executed financing arrangements. Additionally, management believes that the Company’s cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, future borrowings and capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company.



During June 2018, the Company entered into a new revolving credit facility and term loan facility. Refer to the Subsequent Events footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



Cash Flow



The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, borrowings on credit arrangements, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, to repurchase Company stock, and to pay dividends.



The Company’s cash position at May 31, 2018 was $94.3 million, a decrease of $216.8 million from August 31, 2017. During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $300.7 million. Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 primarily to repurchase two million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock for $298.4 million, to fund acquisitions of $163.5 million, to fund capital expenditures of $32.2 million, to pay dividends to stockholders of $16.2 million, and to pay employee taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $7.2 million.



The Company generated $300.7 million of cash flow from operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 compared with $198.0 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $102.7 million, due primarily to lower operating working capital requirements, reduced variable incentive payments for prior year performance, and decreased payments for income taxes. Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $3.0 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to a $34.4 million increase during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The increase in inventory during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 was due primarily to customer expansion in the home center/showroom channel, new product launches, and a buildup of finished goods to support committed projects in the corporate accounts channel. This increase in inventory was mostly offset by a corresponding increase in accounts payable during the same period.



Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. The Company invested $32.2 million and $55.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology. The Company expects to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales primarily for new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology capabilities during fiscal 2018.



Capitalization



The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders. Total debt outstanding was $358.0 million and $356.9 million at May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively, and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. 



On December 8, 2009, ABL issued $350.0 million of senior unsecured notes due in fiscal 2020 (the “Unsecured Notes”) in a private placement transaction. The Unsecured Notes were subsequently exchanged for SEC-registered notes with substantially identical terms. The Unsecured Notes bear interest at a rate of 6% per annum and were issued at a price equal to 99.797% of their face value and for a term of 10 years. See the Debt footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides the Company with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“New Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”). On June 29, 2018, the Company had $90.4 million borrowings outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility and no borrowings under the Term Loan Facility. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement as of June 29, 2018. At June 29, 2018, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $704.3 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the New Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued and $90.4 million in borrowings on the New Revolving Credit Facility. As of June 29, 2018, the Company had outstanding 



27

letters of credit totaling $10.2 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company’s industrial revenue bond, including $5.3 million issued under the New Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt and Subsequent Events footnotes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company’s consolidated stockholders’ equity decreased $65.2 million to $1.60 billion at May 31, 2018, from $1.67 billion at August 31, 2017. The decrease was due primarily to share repurchases, the payment of dividends, shares withheld for employee taxes on vested restricted stock grants, and foreign currency translation adjustments, partially offset by net income earned in the period, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses. The Company’s debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders’ equity) was 18.3% and 17.6% at May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was 14.1% at May 31, 2018 and 2.7% at August 31, 2017.



Dividends



Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $16.2 million and $17.2 million ($0.39 per share) during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends by Acuity Brands are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of the Company’s financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant.



Results of Operations



Third Quarter of Fiscal 2018 Compared with Third Quarter of Fiscal 2017 



The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 (in millions except per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales were $944.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018 compared with $891.6 million reported for the three months ended May 31, 2017, an increase of $52.4 million, or 5.9%. For the three months ended May 31, 2018, the Company reported net income of $73.0 million, a decrease of $9.2 million, or 11.2%, compared with $82.2 



28

million for the three months ended May 31, 2017. For the third quarter of fiscal 2018, diluted earnings per share decreased 5.3% to $1.80 compared with $1.90 reported in the year-ago period.



The following table reconciles certain U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company’s results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition related items, excess inventory adjustments, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, and special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization. Although the impacts of some of these items have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, management typically excludes these charges during internal reviews of performance and uses these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted selling, distribution, and administrative (“SD&A”) expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of the Company’s current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the Company's results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.



29

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________________ 



(1) Acquisition-related items include profit in inventory and professional fees.



(2) Excess inventory related to the closure of a facility. 



Net Sales



Net sales for the three months ended May 31, 2018 increased 5.9% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an increase of approximately 10% in sales volume and a combined 1% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions and foreign exchange rate changes, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in product prices and the mix of products sold (“price/mix”) of approximately 5%. The increase in net sales was due primarily to greater shipments of Atrius-based luminaires to customers in certain key vertical applications and increased sales in the infrastructure/utility channel, partially offset by lower shipments for larger commercial projects due to continued tepid conditions within the North American non-residential lighting market. Unfavorable price/mix reflected changes in both product mix, which included substitutions to certain products with lower price points, and sales channel mix, which included declines in generally higher priced solutions, primarily for larger commercial projects. Price/mix was also impacted by lower pricing on certain luminaires, reflecting increased competition in more basic, lesser-featured 



30

products. Sales of LED-based products accounted for over two-thirds of total net sales during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and approximately two-thirds of total net sales during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix. 



Gross Profit



Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased $10.5 million, or 2.8%, to $389.4 million compared with $378.9 million in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased 120 basis points to 41.3% for the three months ended May 31, 2018 compared with 42.5% in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period due primarily to unfavorable price/mix, increased wages, and additional reserves for excess inventory related to the closure of a facility, partially offset by higher sales volumes, productivity improvements, and lower quality costs. Adjusted gross profit margin for the three months ended May 31, 2018 declined 90 basis points to 41.6% compared with 42.5% in the prior year period.



Operating Profit



SD&A expenses for the three months ended May 31, 2018 were $273.6 million compared with $246.9 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $26.7 million, or 10.8%. The increase in SD&A expenses was due primarily to higher employee related costs, including additional headcount from acquisitions, increased freight charges and commissions to support greater sales volume, and higher professional fees related to recent acquisitions. SD&A expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were 29.0% of net sales compared with 27.7% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the three months ended May 31, 2018 were $257.2 million (27.2% of net sales) compared with $230.6 million (25.9% of net sales) in the prior-year period.



The Company recognized pre-tax special charges of $9.9 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with pre-tax special charges of $0.5 million recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Operating profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $105.9 million (11.2% of net sales) compared with $131.5 million (14.7% of net sales) for the prior-year period, a decrease of $25.6 million, or 19.5%. The decrease in operating profit was primarily due to the impact of price/mix on gross profit, higher SD&A expenses, and increased special charges, partially offset by higher sales volumes.



Adjusted operating profit decreased by $12.5 million, or 8.4%, to $135.8 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with $148.3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Adjusted operating profit margin decreased 220 basis points to 14.4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with 16.6% for the year-ago period.



Other Expense (Income)



Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $8.4 million and $8.1 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $1.7 million and $1.2 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 



Income Taxes and Net Income



The Company’s effective income tax rate was 26.4% and 34.0% for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The effective income rate for the three months ended May 31, 2018 was significantly impacted by the provisions of the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Further details regarding the TCJA are included in the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company currently estimates that the Company’s blended consolidated effective income tax rate, before any discrete items, will approximate 26% to 28% for the remainder of fiscal 2018 and 23% to 25% for fiscal 2019. 



Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $9.2 million to $73.0 million from $82.2 million reported for the prior-year period. The decrease in net income resulted primarily from increased SD&A expenses and special charges incurred during the quarter, partially offset by a smaller provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May 31, 2018 decreased $0.10 to $1.80 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.90 for the prior-year period.



31

Adjusted net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $95.9 million compared with $93.1 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $2.8 million, or 3.0%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May 31, 2018 increased $0.22, or 10.2%, to $2.37 compared with $2.15 for the prior-year period.



First Nine Months of Fiscal 2018 Compared with First Nine Months of Fiscal 2017 



The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 (in millions except per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales were $2.62 billion for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 compared with $2.55 billion reported for the nine months ended May 31, 2017, an increase of $71.4 million, or 2.8%. For the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the Company reported net income of $241.4 million, an increase of $10.2 million, or 4.4%, compared with $231.2 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2017. For the first nine months of fiscal 2018, diluted earnings per share increased 10.6% to $5.85 compared with $5.29 reported in the year-ago period.



The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company’s results of operations, which exclude the impact of acquisition-related items, excess inventory adjustments, certain manufacturing inefficiencies, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization, certain discrete income tax benefits of the TCJA, and the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted SD&A expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted other expense, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of the Company’s current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.



32

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________________ 



(1) Acquisition-related items include profit in inventory and professional fees.



(2) Incremental costs incurred due to manufacturing inefficiencies directly related to the closure of a facility.



(3) Excess inventory related to the closure of a facility.



(4) Discrete income tax benefits of the TCJA include provisional estimates recognized within Income tax expense on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. See Income Taxes footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.



33

Net Sales



Net sales for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 increased $71.4 million, or 2.8%, compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an increase in sales volume of approximately 5% and the favorable impact from foreign exchange rate changes of approximately 1%, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in price/mix of approximately 3%. The increase in net sales was due primarily to greater shipments of Atrius-based luminaires to customers in certain key vertical applications and increased sales in the infrastructure/utility channel, partially offset by lower shipments through the home center/showroom sales channel and certain international channels as well as for larger commercial projects due to continued tepid conditions within the North American non-residential lighting market. Unfavorable price/mix reflected changes in both product mix, which included substitutions to certain products with lower price points, and sales channel mix, which included declines in generally higher priced solutions, primarily for commercial projects. Price/mix was also impacted by lower pricing on certain luminaires, reflecting increased competition in more basic, lesser-featured products. Sales of LED-based luminaires during the first nine months of both fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 accounted for approximately two-thirds of total net sales. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix.



Gross Profit



Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased $0.2 million compared to the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased to 41.0% for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 compared with 42.2% in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period primarily due to unfavorable price/mix, increased wages, and additional reserves for excess inventory related to the closure of a facility. These declines were partially offset by higher sales volumes, productivity improvements, and lower quality costs. Adjusted gross profit for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 was $1.078 billion (41.2% of net sales) compared with $1.076 billion (42.2% of net sales) in the prior-year period.



Operating Profit



SD&A expenses for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 were $751.3 million compared with $706.5 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $44.8 million, or 6.3%. The increase in SD&A expenses was primarily due to higher employee related costs, including additional headcount from acquisitions, increased freight charges and commissions to support greater sales volume, higher professional fees related to recent acquisitions, and to a lesser degree, certain other operating expenses. SD&A expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 were 28.7% of net sales compared with 27.7% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 were $704.6 million (26.9% of net sales) compared with $660.5 million (25.9% of net sales) in the prior-year period.



The Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $10.7 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared with a pre-tax special charge of $1.7 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Operating profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $312.5 million compared with $366.1 million for the prior-year period, a decrease of $53.6 million, or 14.6%. The decrease in operating profit was due primarily to an increase in SD&A expenses and a higher special charge.



Adjusted operating profit decreased by $41.9 million, or 10.1%, to $373.5 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared with $415.4 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Adjusted operating profit margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased 200 basis points to 14.3% compared with 16.3% in the year-ago period.



Other Expense (Income)



Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions. Interest expense, net, was $24.5 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 compared with $24.3 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2017. The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $0.8 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared with net miscellaneous income of $8.5 million in the prior-year period. Net miscellaneous income for the nine months ended May 31, 2017 included a $7.2 million gain associated with the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. 



34

Income Taxes and Net Income



The Company’s effective income tax rate was 16.4% and 34.0% for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The effective income rate for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 was significantly impacted by the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Further details regarding the TCJA are included in the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 



Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased $10.2 million to $241.4 million from $231.2 million reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from the benefit from income taxes recognized related to the TCJA, partially offset by a decrease in operating profit and lower miscellaneous income. Diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 increased $0.56 to $5.85 compared with diluted earnings per share of $5.29 for the prior-year period.



Adjusted net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $255.5 million compared with $258.6 million in the prior-year period, which represented a decrease of $3.1 million, or 1.2%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 increased $0.27, or 4.6%, to $6.19 compared with $5.92 for the prior-year period.



Outlook



Management continues to believe the execution of the Company's strategy will provide attractive opportunities for profitable growth over the long-term. The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth and share gain opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio, coupled with its extensive market presence and financial strength, to produce attractive financial performance over the long-term. These opportunities include serving its traditional new construction and renovation markets as well as leveraging its unique, technology driven solutions portfolio to capture market share in the nascent, but rapidly growing, market for data capture, analytics, and other services, transforming buildings and campuses from cost centers to strategic assets.



Third-party forecasts and leading indicators suggest that demand in the North American lighting market, the Company’s primary market, will improve modestly in second half of calendar 2018 following several quarters of weak demand. Recent softness in the lighting industry has created a challenging environment for management to deliver financial performance in the short term while, at the same time, continuing to invest in attractive longer-term opportunities. Management expects to continue to outperform the growth rates of the markets that the Company serves by executing its strategies focused on growth opportunities for new construction and renovation projects, expansion into underpenetrated geographies and channels, and growth from the continued introduction of new lighting and building management solutions as part of the Company’s integrated, tiered solutions strategy.



Management expects the pricing environment to continue to be challenging in portions of the market, particularly for more basic, lesser-featured products sold through certain sales channels as well as shifts in product mix, both of which are expected to continue to negatively impact net sales and margins. Management expects to continue to introduce products and solutions to more effectively compete in these portions of the market and to accelerate programs to reduce product costs in order to maintain the Company’s competitiveness and drive improved profitability.



During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recognized a pre-tax special charge of $9.9 million, primarily related to the planned consolidation of certain facilities and associated reduction in employee workforce. The special charge consisted primarily of severance and employee-related benefit costs. The Company also recorded a $3.1 million charge during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to reserve for raw material inventory located at one of the facilities where production activities will cease because it would not be cost effective to relocate that inventory. Management expects to incur additional costs in future periods associated with the closing of facilities, primarily attributable to early lease termination costs and relocation costs. Annual savings realized from the streamlining activities, once fully completed, are expected to exceed the amount of the special charge and will be reinvested in activities to support higher-growth opportunities as well as drive improved profitability.



On June 29, 2018, the Company entered into a new credit agreement with a syndicate of banks that increased the Company’s borrowing capacity under such agreement from $250 million to $800 million. The increase in borrowing capacity provides the Company with the resources to accommodate the current stock repurchase program of which 5.2 million shares remain available for repurchase. The extent and timing of actual stock repurchases will be subject to various factors, including stock price, company performance, expected future market conditions, and other possible uses of cash, including acquisitions. The Company may increase its leverage to accommodate the stock repurchase program.



35

Management expects the TCJA that was passed on December 22, 2017, to favorably impact the Company’s net income, diluted earnings per share, and cash flows in future periods, due primarily to the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for periods beginning January 1, 2018. Additionally, positive business sentiment and other favorable aspects of the new tax law could incentivize additional investments in facilities and infrastructure in the U.S. that may increase future demand in the end-markets that the Company serves. Management currently estimates that the Company’s blended consolidated effective income tax rate (“tax rate”) for full-year fiscal 2018 will approximate 26% to 28% before discrete items, compared with nearly 35% for the prior year. Management currently estimates that the fiscal 2019 tax rate will approximate 23% to 25% before discrete items. The aforementioned tax related estimates may differ from actual results, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations of the TCJA and assumptions made by the Company, as well as guidance that may be issued and actions the Company may take as a result of the TCJA.



Notwithstanding the TCJA, a great amount of rhetoric and debate remains regarding a wide range of policy options with respect to monetary, regulatory, and trade, amongst others, that the U.S. federal government has and may pursue, including the recent imposition of tariffs on certain imports and continuing discussions on amending or terminating North American Free Trade Agreement (“NAFTA”). Certain of the components used in the Company’s products are impacted by the recently imposed tariffs on China imports but the Company does not currently believe it will have a material adverse financial effect. Any future policy changes that may be implemented could have a positive or negative consequence on the Company’s financial performance depending on how the changes would influence many factors, including business and consumer sentiment. While management is proactively identifying and evaluating potential contingency options under various policy scenarios, it is too early to comment or speculate at this time on the potential ramification of these endless scenarios.



From a longer term perspective, management expects that the Company’s addressable markets have the potential to experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the IoT through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. Management remains positive about the future prospects of the Company and its ability to outperform the markets it serves.



Critical Accounting Estimates



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; inventory valuation; amortization and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based payment expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; retirement benefits; and litigation. Management bases its estimates and judgments on its substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management discusses the development of accounting estimates with the Company’s Audit Committee of the Board.



There have been no material changes in the Company’s critical accounting estimates during the current period. For a detailed discussion of significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, please refer to the Company’s Form 10-K.



36

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information



This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as “expects,” “believes,” “intends,” “anticipates,” and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company. In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company’s behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company’s projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, investments, share repurchases, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of any changes in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions and the pricing environment; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building management solutions market growth rate and growth in the Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) the Company’s estimate of its fiscal 2018 and 2019 tax rates, as well as the impact of the TCJA on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; (f) the Company’s estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company’s ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; (h) the impact to the Company of changes in the political landscape and related policy changes, including monetary, regulatory, and trade policies; and (i) the Company's expectations about the resolution of trade compliance, securities class action, and/or other legal matters. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this quarterly report. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this quarterly report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The Company’s forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the Company and management’s present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company. Also, additional risks that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors of the Company's Form 10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.



