Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) and its subsidiaries as of May 31, 2019 and for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report. Also, please refer to Acuity Brands' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 25, 2018 (“Form 10-K”).



Overview



Company



Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company,” or similar references). Our principal office is located in Atlanta, Georgia.



We are one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. Our lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, we continue to expand our solutions portfolio, including software and services, to provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics that enables the Internet of Things (“IoT”), supports the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid, and allows businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations. As of May 31, 2019, we operate 18 manufacturing facilities and eight distribution facilities along with three warehouses to serve our extensive customer base.



We do not consider acquisitions a critical element of our strategy but seek opportunities to expand and enhance our portfolio of solutions, including the following transactions that were completed in the prior fiscal year: 



On May 1, 2018, using cash on hand and borrowings available under existing credit arrangements, we acquired IOTA Engineering, LLC (“IOTA”). IOTA is headquartered in Tucson, Arizona and manufactures highly engineered emergency lighting products and power equipment for commercial and institutional applications both in the U.S. and internationally.



On February 12, 2018, using cash on hand, we acquired Lucid Design Group, Inc (“Lucid”). Lucid is headquartered in Oakland, California and provides a data and analytics platform to make data-driven decisions to improve building efficiency and drive energy conservation and savings. 



No acquisitions were completed during the first nine months of fiscal 2019.



The results of operations for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year due primarily to seasonality, which results in our net sales and net income generally being higher in the second half of our fiscal year, the impact of any acquisitions, and, among other reasons, the continued uncertainty of general economic conditions that may impact our key end markets for the remainder of fiscal 2019.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from our business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, repurchase shares, meet obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements.



For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we paid $39.8 million for property, plant, and equipment, primarily for new and enhanced information technology capabilities, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements. We currently expect to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales in capital expenditures during fiscal 2019.



In March 2018, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of the Company's common stock. As of May 31, 2019, 1.2 million shares had been repurchased under this authorization, of 



30

which 0.4 million shares were repurchased in fiscal 2019. We expect to repurchase the remaining shares available for repurchase on an opportunistic basis subject to various factors including stock price, Company performance, market conditions and other possible uses of cash.



Our short-term cash needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned; making capital investments as currently anticipated; paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated; paying principal and interest on debt as currently scheduled, including our senior unsecured notes maturing in December 2019, which we expect to repay with borrowings available under existing credit arrangements; making required contributions to our employee benefit plans; funding possible acquisitions; and potentially repurchasing shares of our outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board. We believe that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs over the next 12 months based on our cash on hand, current projections of cash flow from operations, and borrowing availability under financing arrangements. Additionally, we believe that our cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, future borrowings and capacity, will sufficiently support our long-term liquidity needs.



Cash Flow



We use available cash and cash flow from operations, borrowings on credit arrangements, and proceeds from the exercise of stock options to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions if any; to repurchase Company stock; and to pay dividends.



Our cash position at May 31, 2019 was $333.7 million, an increase of $204.6 million from August 31, 2018. During the nine months ended May 31, 2019, we generated net cash flows from operations of $312.0 million. Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 primarily to repurchase 0.4 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $48.7 million, fund capital expenditures of $39.8 million, pay dividends to stockholders of $15.6 million, and pay withholding taxes on the net settlement of equity awards of $4.9 million.



We generated $312.0 million of cash flow from operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 compared with $299.7 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $12.3 million, due primarily to lower operating working capital requirements. Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable, net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $21.1 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to a $3.0 million decrease during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due primarily to greater cash collections from customers year over year as well as fewer inventory purchases, partially offset by the timing of payments for trade payables.



We believe that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on our invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. We paid $39.8 million and $32.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, primarily related to investments in new information technology, equipment, tooling, and facility enhancements. We expect to invest approximately 1.5% of net sales primarily for new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology capabilities during fiscal 2019.



Capitalization



Our current capital structure is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of our stockholders. Total debt outstanding was $356.6 million and $356.8 million at May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. 



On December 8, 2009, ABL issued $350.0 million of senior unsecured notes due in December 2019 (the “Unsecured Notes”) in a private placement transaction. The Unsecured Notes were subsequently exchanged for SEC registered notes with substantially identical terms. The Unsecured Notes bear interest at a rate of 6% per annum and were issued at a price equal to 99.797% of their face value and for a term of ten years. Although the Unsecured Notes will mature within one year from the balance sheet, we have the ability and intent to refinance these borrowings using availability under our unsecured delayed draw term loan facility (“Term Loan Facility”) as described below. Currently, we plan to refinance the Unsecured Notes in full with borrowings under the Term Loan Facility, of which $341.1 million of the carrying value would be due greater than one year from the anticipated refinancing date. As such, this amount is reflected within Long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 2019. See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



On June 29, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks that provides us with a $400.0 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $400.0 million Term Loan Facility. On May 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility and no borrowings under the Term Loan Facility. We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the Credit Agreement 



31

as of May 31, 2019. At May 31, 2019, we had additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement of $794.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility less the outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued on the Revolving Credit Facility. As of May 31, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $9.5 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under our casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for our industrial revenue bond, including $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, our consolidated stockholders’ equity increased $168.1 million to $1.88 billion at May 31, 2019, from $1.72 billion at August 31, 2018. The increase was due primarily to net income earned in the period, partially offset by share repurchases, adjustments related to the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”), the payment of dividends, and foreign currency translation adjustments. Our debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders’ equity) was 15.9% and 17.2% at May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was 1.2% and 11.7% at May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively.



Dividends



We paid dividends on our common stock of $15.6 million and $16.2 million ($0.39 per share) during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of our financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant.



Results of Operations



Third Quarter of Fiscal 2019 Compared with Third Quarter of Fiscal 2018 



The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 (in millions except per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales were $947.6 million for the three months ended May 31, 2019 compared with $944.0 million reported for the three months ended May 31, 2018, an increase of $3.6 million, or 0.4%. For the three months ended May 31, 2019, 



32

we reported net income of $88.4 million, an increase of $15.4 million, or 21.1%, compared with $73.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018. For the third quarter of fiscal 2019, diluted earnings per share increased 23.3% to $2.22 compared with $1.80 reported in the year-ago period.



Fiscal 2019 results were impacted by the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in a decrease to revenues, gross profit, and operating profit of $3.8 million, $1.6 million, and $1.6 million, respectively, during the three months ended May 31, 2019. Additionally, fiscal 2018 results were restated to reflect the impact of adopting Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-07, Compensation — Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost (“ASU 2017-07”). Upon adoption of ASU 2017-07, our previously reported operating profit and other expense both increased $1.5 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018. The provisions of ASU 2017-07 had no impact to our previously reported net income or earnings per share. See New Accounting Pronouncements footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 



The following table reconciles certain U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of our results of operations, which exclude the impact of excess inventory adjustments, acquisition related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, and special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization. Although the impacts of some of these items have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, we typically exclude these charges during internal reviews of performance and use these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted selling, distribution, and administrative (“SD&A”) expenses and adjusted SD&A expenses as a percent of net sales, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of our current financial performance. Specifically, we believe these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into our results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.



33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________________ 



(1) Acquisition-related items include profit in inventory and professional fees.



(2) Excess inventory related to the closure of a facility. 



Net Sales



Net sales for the three months ended May 31, 2019 increased 0.4% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to a greater than 1% increase in sales volumes, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange rate changes and the adoption of ASC 606. Changes in product prices and mix of products sold (“price/mix”) were flat compared to the prior year as higher pricing was offset by changes in the mix of products sold and customer mix within certain channels; the realization from recent price increases was estimated to have contributed low single-digit growth to overall net sales for the quarter. Acquired revenues from acquisitions net of lost revenues from divestitures were flat compared to the prior year period. From a channel perspective, increased sales in the independent sales network were largely offset by lower sales in the retail channel compared to the prior year period, which was primarily due to the impact of a planned program this year to eliminate certain product categories that do not meet our expected profit margin profile. Due to the changing dynamics of our product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building 



34

management solutions, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix. 



Gross Profit



Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $5.5 million, or 1.4%, to $383.6 million compared with $389.1 million in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased 70 basis points to 40.5% for the three months ended May 31, 2019 compared with 41.2% in the prior-year period. The decline in gross profit margin was due primarily to a shift in sales among key customers within the retail channel as well as under-absorption of manufacturing costs as a result of inventory reduction efforts. Adjusted gross profit margin for the three months ended May 31, 2019 declined 110 basis points to 40.5% compared with 41.6% in the prior year period.



Operating Profit



SD&A expenses for the three months ended May 31, 2019 were $263.4 million compared with $271.8 million in the prior-year period, a decrease of $8.4 million, or 3.1%. The decrease in SD&A expenses was due primarily to a decrease in outbound freight, which was partially due to the customer shift within the retail sales channel, as well as lower professional fees related to acquisitions. SD&A expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were 27.8% of net sales compared with 28.8% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the three months ended May 31, 2019 were $248.1 million (26.2% of net sales) compared with $255.4 million (27.1% of net sales) in the prior-year period.



We recognized pre-tax special charge credits of $0.1 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with pre-tax special charges of $9.9 million recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Further details regarding our special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Operating profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $120.3 million (12.7% of net sales) compared with $107.4 million (11.4% of net sales) for the prior-year period, an increase of $12.9 million, or 12.0%. The increase in operating profit was primarily due to lower SD&A expenses and decreased special charges, partially offset by lower gross profit.



Adjusted operating profit decreased by $1.8 million, or 1.3%, to $135.5 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with $137.3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Adjusted operating profit margin decreased to 14.3% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 14.5% for the year-ago period.



Other Expense (Income)



Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous expense, which includes non-service related components of net periodic pension cost, gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions, and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $8.3 million and $8.4 million for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We reported net miscellaneous expense of $0.2 million and net miscellaneous income of $0.2 million for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 



Income Taxes and Net Income



Our effective income tax rate was 20.9% and 26.4% for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decline in the current fiscal tax rate reflects a lower federal statutory rate and the recognition of certain research and development cost tax credits, including claims for prior periods, during the current period. We currently estimate that our blended consolidated effective income tax rate, before any discrete items, will approximate 22% to 24% for fiscal 2019.



Net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $15.4 million to $88.4 million from $73.0 million reported for the prior-year period. The increase in net income resulted primarily from an increased operating profit compared to the prior-year period and to a lesser extent lower income tax expense. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May 31, 2019 increased $0.42 to $2.22 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.80 for the prior-year period. This increase reflects higher net income and a reduced share count.



Adjusted net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $100.6 million, compared with $95.9 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $4.7 million, or 4.9%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended May 31, 2019 increased $0.16, or 6.8%, to $2.53 compared with $2.37 for the prior-year period. 



35

First Nine Months of Fiscal 2019 Compared with First Nine Months of Fiscal 2018



The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 (in millions except per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales were $2.73 billion for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 compared with $2.62 billion reported for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, an increase of $115.7 million, or 4.4%. For the nine months ended May 31, 2019, we reported net income of $234.3 million, a decrease of $7.1 million, or 2.9%, compared with $241.4 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2018. For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, diluted earnings per share increased 0.3% to $5.87 compared with $5.85 reported in the year-ago period.



Fiscal 2019 results were impacted by the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in a decrease to revenues, gross profit, and operating profit of $7.8 million, $3.8 million, and $4.0 million, respectively, during the nine months ended May 31, 2019. Additionally, fiscal 2018 results were restated to reflect the impact of adopting ASU 2017-07. Upon adoption of ASU 2017-07, our previously reported operating profit and other expense both increased $4.6 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2018. The provisions of ASU 2017-07 had no impact to our previously reported net income or earnings per share. See New Accounting Pronouncements footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 



The following table reconciles certain U.S. GAAP financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of our results of operations, which exclude the impact of manufacturing inefficiencies, excess inventory adjustments, acquisition-related items, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization, and certain discrete income tax benefits of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”). These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted SD&A expenses and adjusted SD&A expenses as a percent of net sales, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of our current financial performance. Specifically, we believe these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into our results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.



36

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________________ 



(1) Incremental costs incurred due to manufacturing inefficiencies directly related to the closure of a facility.



(2) Acquisition-related items include profit in inventory and professional fees.



(3) Excess inventory related to the closure of a facility. 



(4) Discrete income tax benefits of the TCJA recognized within Income tax expense on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. See Income Taxes footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.



37

Net Sales



Net sales for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 increased $115.7 million, or 4.4%, compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an increase in sales volume of approximately 5% and a less than 1% favorable impact of acquired revenues from acquisitions net of lost revenues from divestitures. This increase was partially offset by a 1% unfavorable impact of adopting ASC 606 and movements in foreign exchange rates. The increase in net sales was due primarily to greater shipments within our key sales channels except the retail sales channel. Price/mix was flat year over year as the benefits from recently announced price increases were offset by unfavorable changes primarily in sales channel mix as well as customer mix within certain channels. Due to the changing dynamics of our product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix. 



Gross Profit



Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased $11.5 million compared to the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased to 39.7% for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 compared with 41.0% in the prior-year period. The decline in gross profit margin was due primarily to a shift in sales among key customers within the retail channel as well as under-absorption of manufacturing costs as a result of inventory reduction efforts as well as higher materials and freight costs. Adjusted gross profit for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was $1,087.1 million (39.8% of net sales) compared with $1,077.1 million (41.1% of net sales) in the prior-year period.



Operating Profit



SD&A expenses for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 were $751.1 million compared with $745.7 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $5.4 million, or 0.7%. The increase in SD&A expenses was primarily due to higher employee related costs, increased commissions to support higher sales volume, and expenses associated with acquired businesses, partially offset by lower outbound freight charges, which was partially due to the customer shift within the retail sales channel. SD&A expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 were 27.5% of net sales compared with 28.5% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 were $705.1 million (25.8% of net sales) compared with $699.0 million (26.7% of net sales) in the prior-year period.



We recognized a pre-tax special charge of $1.3 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared with a pre-tax special charge of $10.7 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Further details regarding our special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Operating profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $332.6 million compared with $317.1 million for the prior-year period, an increase of $15.5 million, or 4.9%. The increase in operating profit was due primarily to an increase in gross profit and lower special charge, partially offset by an increase in SD&A expenses.



Adjusted operating profit increased by $3.9 million, or 1.0%, to $382.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with $378.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Adjusted operating profit margin for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased 40 basis points to 14.0% compared with 14.4% in the year-ago period.



Other Expense (Income)



Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous expense, which includes non-service related components of net periodic pension cost, gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions, and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $25.6 million and $24.5 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We reported net miscellaneous expense of $2.6 million and $3.8 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.



Income Taxes and Net Income



Our effective income tax rate was 23.0% and 16.4% for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The effective income rate for the nine months ended 2018 was significantly impacted by the TCJA, which was enacted during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Further details regarding the TCJA are included in the Income Taxes footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We currently estimate that our blended consolidated effective income tax rate, before any discrete items, will approximate 22% to 24% for fiscal 2019.



Net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased $7.1 million to $234.3 million from $241.4 million reported for the prior-year period. The decrease in net income resulted primarily from a one-time tax benefit for income taxes related to the TCJA recorded in 2018 that did not recur in the current fiscal year. Diluted earnings per share for the 



38

nine months ended May 31, 2019 increased $0.02 to $5.87 compared with diluted earnings per share of $5.85 for the prior-year period. This increase reflects higher operating profit and a reduced share count, partially offset by higher net income tax expense.



Adjusted net income for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $272.4 million compared with $255.5 million in the prior-year period, which represented an increase of $16.9 million, or 6.6%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 increased $0.64, or 10.3%, to $6.83 compared with $6.19 for the prior-year period.



Outlook



We continue to believe the execution of our strategy will provide attractive opportunities for profitable growth over the long-term. Our strategy is to capitalize on market growth and share gain opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage our industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio, coupled with our extensive market presence and financial strength, to produce attractive financial performance over the long-term.



Third-party forecasts and several leading indicators continue to suggest that the North American lighting market, our primary market, will increase in the low-single digit range in calendar 2019, although some leading indicators of future market demand, such as the Architectural Billings Index and the Dodge Momentum Index, have recently softened. We continue to believe that the forecasts reflect reasonable growth expectations, but we are somewhat cautious given the angst in the marketplace due to the uncertainties around trade policy issues and the potential impact that tariffs and higher prices may have on overall demand. Additionally, we expect that labor shortages in certain markets will continue to dampen growth rates for both the construction and lighting markets. 



We believe our fiscal fourth quarter net sales could be down modestly compared with prior year’s net sales, which benefitted from the significant initial stocking of product in the stores of a new customer in the retail sales channel. Also, fourth quarter net sales may be negatively impacted by our efforts to enhance our margin profile as we expect to continue our program of reviewing portions of our product portfolio and services offerings with the objective of eliminating those items and activities that do not meet our return objectives. Lastly, we believe our fourth quarter adjusted operating profit margin will exceed prior-year’s fourth quarter margin as well as improve on a sequential basis from the third quarter.



We expect to continue to outperform the growth rates of the markets that we serve in future periods, subject to quarterly volatility and excluding our actions to prune less profitable portions of our product portfolio, by continuing to execute our various strategies. These strategies focus on growth opportunities for new construction and renovation projects, expansion into underpenetrated geographies and channels, and growth from the continued introduction of new lighting and building management solutions as part of our integrated, tiered solutions strategy, including leveraging our unique, technology driven solutions portfolio to capture market share in the nascent, but rapidly growing, market for data capture, analytics, and other services, assisting in transforming buildings and campuses from cost centers to strategic assets.



We expect the pricing environment to continue to be challenging in portions of the market, particularly for more basic, lesser-featured products sold through certain sales channels as well as shifts in product mix, both of which could continue to negatively impact net sales and margins. We expect recently announced price increases to mitigate some of the pricing pressures in the market but not to have any material impact on product substitution trends to lower priced alternatives. We expect to continue to introduce products and solutions to more effectively compete in these portions of the market and to accelerate programs to reduce product costs in order to maintain our competitiveness and drive improved profitability.



The U.S. federal government has recently imposed tariffs on certain Chinese imports and threatened to impose tariffs on all products imported from Mexico. We produce a meaningful percentage of our products in Mexico and certain components used in our products as well as certain sourced finished products are sourced from China and are impacted by the recently imposed Chinese tariffs. Our efforts to mitigate the impact of these added costs include a variety of activities, such as finding alternative suppliers, in-sourcing the production of certain products, and raising prices. We believe that our mitigation activities, including recently announced price increases once fully enacted, will assist to offset the added costs. Future U.S. policy changes that may be implemented, including additional tariffs, could have a positive or negative consequence on our financial performance depending on how the changes influence many factors, including business and consumer sentiment.



During fiscal 2018, we announced the planned consolidation of certain facilities and associated reduction in employee workforce. We recognized $11.9 million to date in special charges for this initiative primarily related to severance, employee benefit costs, and relocation costs. We expect to incur additional costs in future periods primarily related to early lease termination and additional relocation costs. Annual savings realized from the streamlining activities, once 



39

fully completed, are expected to exceed the amount of the special charges recognized. We expect to reinvest most of the savings in activities to support higher-growth opportunities, as well as drive improved profitability.



During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we entered into a new credit agreement with a syndicate of banks that increased our borrowing capacity under such agreements from $250 million to $800 million. The increase in borrowing capacity provides us with the resources to support growth opportunities, including acquisitions, accommodate the current stock repurchase program, of which 4.8 million shares remain available for repurchase as of July 2, 2019, and refinance our outstanding senior unsecured notes that mature in late calendar 2019. The extent and timing of actual stock repurchases will be subject to various factors, including stock price, company performance, expected future market conditions, and other possible uses of cash, including acquisitions. We may increase our leverage to accommodate the stock repurchase program.



From a longer term perspective, we expect that our addressable markets have the potential to experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns continue to come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the IoT through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. We remain positive about the future prospects of the Company and our ability to outperform the markets we serve.



Critical Accounting Estimates



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; inventory valuation; amortization and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based payment expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; retirement benefits; and litigation. We base our estimates and judgments on our substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We discuss the development of accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board.



There have been no material changes in our critical accounting estimates during the current period. We adopted ASC 606 during the current fiscal year, which required changes to our revenue policies but did not have a material impact to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Refer to the Revenue Recognition footnote within the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding our accounting policies and critical accounting estimates under ASC 606. 



For a detailed discussion of other significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, refer to our Form 10-K.



Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information



This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as “expects,” “believes,” “intends,” “anticipates,” and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company. In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company’s behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) our projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, investments, share repurchases, and dividends, including our intent and ability to refinance our senior unsecured notes; (b) expectations about the impact of any changes in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions and the pricing environment; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building management solutions market growth rate and growth in our addressable markets; (d) our ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining our operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) our estimate of our fiscal 2019 effective income tax rate, results of operations, and cash 



40

flows; (f) our estimate of future amortization expense; (g) our ability to achieve our long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets we serve; (h) the impact of changes in the political landscape and related policy changes, including monetary, regulatory, and trade policies; (i) our expectations related to mitigating efforts around recently imposed tariffs; (j) our expectations about the resolution of trade compliance, securities class action, and/or other legal matters; and (k) the impacts of new accounting pronouncements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this quarterly report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this quarterly report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience and management’s present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting us. Also, additional risks that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors of our Form 10-K.



