PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



On January 3, 2018, a shareholder filed a class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against the Company and certain of its officers on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company’s stock between June 29, 2016 and April 3, 2017. On February 20, 2018, a different shareholder filed a second class action complaint in the same venue against the same parties on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired the Company’s stock between October 15, 2015 and April 3, 2017. A motion to consolidate the cases has been filed and is presently pending, unopposed. The complaints allege that the defendants violated the federal securities laws by making false or misleading statements and/or omitting to disclose material adverse facts that (i) concealed known trends negatively impacting sales of the Company’s products and (ii) overstated the Company’s ability to achieve profitable sales growth. The plaintiffs seek class certification, unspecified monetary damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. The Company disputes the allegations in the complaints and intends to vigorously defend against the claims. Estimating an amount or range of possible losses resulting from litigation proceedings is inherently difficult, particularly where the matters involve indeterminate claims for monetary damages and are in the stages of the proceedings where key factual and legal issues have not been resolved. For these reasons, the Company is currently unable to predict the ultimate timing or outcome of or reasonably estimate the possible losses or a range of possible losses resulting from the matters described above. The Company is insured, in excess of a self-retention, for Directors and Officers liability. 



The Company is subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability claims, and employment matters. The Company is self-insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims, including product liability, and is fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, and patent infringement. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company in future periods. The Company establishes reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims. However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.



Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended February 28, 2018, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter. The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.



Item 1a.Risk Factors



There have been no material changes in the Company’s risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors of the Company’s Form 10-K.



37

Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



The following table reflects activity related to equity securities purchased by the Company during the quarter ended February 28, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of six million shares, which includes the remaining 0.8 million shares available for repurchase under the June 2017 authorization. 



Item 5.Other Information



Declaration of Dividend



On March 29, 2018, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share. The dividend is payable on May 1, 2018 to stockholders of record on April 17, 2018.



Item 6.Exhibits



Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.



38

INDEX TO EXHIBITS



EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (d)Amended and Restated Bylaws of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.



EXHIBIT 10(iii)A(1)Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement for U.S. Employees. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (2)Form of Restricted Stock Unit Notification and Award Agreement for Non-U.S. Grantees. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (3)Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement for Directors. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 101 The following financial information from the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2018, filed on April 4, 2018, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (iv) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



39

