PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



On January 3, 2018, a shareholder filed a class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against the Company and certain of our officers on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between June 29, 2016 and April 3, 2017. On February 20, 2018, a different shareholder filed a second class action complaint in the same venue against the same parties on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between October 15, 2015 and April 3, 2017. The cases were transferred on April 30, 2018, to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia and subsequently were consolidated as In re Acuity Brands, Inc. Securities Litigation, Civil Action No. 1:18-cv-02140-MHC (N.D. Ga.). On October 5, 2018, the court-appointed lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended class action complaint (the “Consolidated Complaint”), which supersedes the initial complaints. The Consolidated Complaint is brought on behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock between October 7, 2015 and April 3, 2017 and alleges that the Company and certain of our current officers and one former executive violated the federal securities laws by making false or misleading statements and/or omitting to disclose material adverse facts that (i) concealed known trends negatively impacting sales of the Company’s products and (ii) overstated our ability to achieve profitable sales growth. The plaintiff seeks class certification, unspecified monetary damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations and intend to vigorously defend against the claims. We have filed a motion to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint. Estimating an amount or range of possible losses resulting from litigation proceedings is inherently difficult, particularly where the matters involve indeterminate claims for monetary damages and are in the stages of the proceedings where key factual and legal issues have not been resolved. For these reasons, we are currently unable to predict the ultimate timing or outcome of or reasonably estimate the possible losses or a range of possible losses resulting from the matters described above. We maintain Director and Officer insurance policies that may cover any liability arising out of this litigation up to the policies’ limits, subject to a self-insured retention and other terms and conditions.



We are subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability claims, and employment matters. We are self-insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims, including product liability, and are fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, and patent infringement. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods. We establish reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims. However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.



Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended May 31, 2019, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter. The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.



Item 1a.Risk Factors



There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors of our Form 10-K.



42

Item 5.Other Information



Declaration of Dividend



On June 28, 2019, the the Board of Directors (the “Board”) declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share. The dividend is payable on August 1, 2019 to stockholders of record on July 17, 2019.



Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers



On June 28, 2019, the Board approved certain amendments to the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2002 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) maintained for the benefit of certain executive officers of the Company and the Acuity Brands, Inc. Supplemental Deferred Saving Plan (“SDSP”) maintained for the benefit of certain executive officers and certain other members of senior management of the Company. The amendments follow a comprehensive assessment of our various compensation and benefit programs with an objective to ensure such company benefits are competitive with comparable companies in order to attract and retain executive talent while facilitating a performance-based culture. The comprehensive assessment was initiated following the results of the most recent advisory vote on named executive officer compensation. As a result of the comprehensive assessment as well as feedback received from investors, the Board also approved changes to our cash bonus and equity incentive programs in an effort to enhance the alignment of executive compensation with performance. These changes included, but were not limited to:



•addition of performance-based restricted shares utilizing a 3-year performance metric; 



•elimination of stock options;



•addition of Return on Invested Capital in excess of Weighted Average Cost of Capital as a performance metric under both the cash bonus and equity incentive programs; and



•elimination of annual Diluted Earnings Per Share as a metric under both the cash bonus and equity incentive plans.



The SERP was amended and restated, effective as of July 1, 2019, in the following significant respects:



(i)An additional benefit was provided for those participants who were actively employed in the capacity of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer or the Company’s Chief Financial Officer on July 1, 2019. The additional benefit (“Supplemental Accrued Benefit”) provides a monthly benefit for 180 months commencing at age 60 (or following retirement thereafter) equal to 1.4% of the participant's "average annual compensation" multiplied by his years of credited service not to exceed 10 years, divided by 12. Participants may elect to receive the actuarial equivalent of the incremental benefit in the form of a lump sum cash payment.



(ii)A modified benefit (“Modified Accrued Benefit”) was provided for eligible employees who first become a participant on or after September 1, 2019, and who have been both an active employee and an eligible participant in the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan for a period of at least 10 years. The Modified Accrued Benefit provides for a monthly benefit payable for 180 months commencing at age 60 (or following retirement thereafter) equal to 2.8% of the participant's "average annual compensation" multiplied by his years of credited service not to exceed 10 years, divided by 12.



The SDSP was amended and restated, effective as of July 1, 2019, in the following significant respects:



(i)For an executive who becomes a participant in the SERP on or after September 1, 2019 and receives the Modified Accrued Benefit under the SERP, the executive shall continue to be eligible to receive the employer matching and supplemental contribution credits under the SDSP.



This summary of the amendments to the SERP and SDSP is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2002 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, effective as of January 1, 2003, as amended and restated effective as of July 1, 2019, and the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective July 1, 2019, except where otherwise noted, which are set forth in Exhibits 10(b) and 10(c) to this Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q.



Item 6.Exhibits



Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.



43

INDEX TO EXHIBITS



EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (d)Amended and Restated Bylaws of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.



EXHIBIT 10(a)Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 22, 2019 to Credit Agreement dated as of June 29, 2018. Reference is made to Exhibit 10.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on April 24, 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (b)Acuity Brands, Inc. 2005 Supplemental Deferred Savings Plan as Amended and Restated effective July 1, 2019 



Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (c)Acuity Brands, Inc. 2002 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan Amended and Restated as of July 1, 2019. 



Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 101.INSXBRL Instance Document The instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document.



 .SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 .CALXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 .DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 .LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.  Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 .PREXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.  Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



44

