 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



On January 3, 2018, a shareholder filed a class action complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against the Company and certain of our officers on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between June 29, 2016 and April 3, 2017. On February 20, 2018, a different shareholder filed a second class action complaint in the same venue against the same parties on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired our stock between October 15, 2015 and April 3, 2017. The cases were transferred on April 30, 2018, to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia and subsequently were consolidated as In re Acuity Brands, Inc. Securities Litigation, Civil Action No. 1:18-cv-02140-MHC (N.D. Ga.). On October 5, 2018, the court appointed lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended class action complaint (the “Consolidated Complaint”), which supersedes the initial complaints. The Consolidated Complaint is brought on behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock between October 7, 2015 and April 3, 2017 and alleges that the Company and certain of our current officers and one former executive violated the federal securities laws by making false or misleading statements and/or omitting to disclose material adverse facts that (i) concealed known trends negatively impacting sales of the Company’s products and (ii) overstated our ability to achieve profitable sales growth. The plaintiffs seek class certification, unspecified monetary damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. We dispute the allegations and intend to vigorously defend against the claims in the complaints. We have filed a motion to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint. Estimating an amount or range of possible losses resulting from litigation proceedings is inherently difficult, particularly where the matters involve indeterminate claims for monetary damages and are in the stages of the proceedings where key factual and legal issues have not been resolved. For these reasons, we are currently unable to predict the ultimate timing or outcome of or reasonably estimate the possible losses or a range of possible losses resulting from the matters described above. We are insured, in excess of a self-retention, for Directors and Officers liability.



We are subject to various other legal claims arising in the normal course of business, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability claims, and employment matters. We are self-insured up to specified limits for certain types of claims, including product liability, and are fully self-insured for certain other types of claims, including environmental, product recall, and patent infringement. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the ultimate resolution of any such pending and threatened legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company. However, in the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of any such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows in future periods. We establish reserves for legal claims when the costs associated with the claims become probable and can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher than the amounts reserved for such claims. However, we cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.



Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings in the Company’s Form 10-K. Information set forth in this report’s Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes any legal proceedings that became reportable during the quarter ended November 30, 2018, and updates any descriptions of previously reported legal proceedings in which there have been material developments during such quarter. The discussion of legal proceedings included within the Commitments and Contingencies footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated into this Item 1 by reference.



Item 1a.Risk Factors



There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors of our Form 10-K.



35

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to six million shares of the Company's common stock. As of November 30, 2018, we repurchased a total of one million shares under this plan. The following table reflects activity related to equity securities we repurchased during the quarter ended November 30, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Item 5.Other Information



Results of Annual Stockholders Meeting



At our annual meeting of stockholders held on January 4, 2019, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.



PROPOSAL 1 - Votes regarding the persons elected to serve as Directors of the Company were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In addition to the above elected directors, the directors whose term of office continued after the meeting are as follows: W. Patrick Battle, Robert F. McCullough, and Dominic J. Pileggi.



PROPOSAL 2 - Votes cast regarding the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



PROPOSAL 3 - The results of the advisory vote on the compensation of the named executive officers of the Company were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Pursuant to the foregoing votes, the Company's stockholders: (i) elected seven directors nominated by the Board of Directors and listed above for a one-year term; (ii) approved the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP 



36

as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm; and (iii) approved, on an advisory basis, the Company's named executive officer compensation.



Declaration of Dividend



On January 4, 2019, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share. The dividend is payable on February 1, 2019 to stockholders of record on January 18, 2019.



Size of Board



On January 4, 2019, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) reduced the size of the Board from eleven members to ten following the retirement of Norman H. Wesley from the Board.



Item 6.Exhibits



Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.



37

INDEX TO EXHIBITS



EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 (d)Amended and Restated Bylaws of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017. Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.



EXHIBIT 10(a)Amendment No. 8 to Acuity Brands, Inc. Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between Acuity Brands, Inc. and Richard K. Reece dated January 4, 2019. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (b)Amendment No. 1 to Acuity Brands, Inc. Severance Agreement between Acuity Brands, Inc. and Laurent J. Vernerey dated January 4, 2019. 



Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (c)Acuity Brands, Inc. Compensation for Non-Employee Directors (Effective September 1, 2018) Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



 (b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



EXHIBIT 101 The following financial information from the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2018, filed on January 9, 2019, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (iv) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.



38

