Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The purpose of this discussion and analysis is to enhance the understanding and evaluation of the results of operations, financial position, cash flows, indebtedness, and other key financial information of Acuity Brands, Inc. (“Acuity Brands”) and its subsidiaries as of November 30, 2017 and for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report. Also, please refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on October 26, 2017 (“Form 10-K”). 



Overview



Company



Acuity Brands is the parent company of Acuity Brands Lighting, Inc. (“ABL”) and other subsidiaries (Acuity Brands, ABL, and such other subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company”). The Company has its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia.



The Company is one of the world’s leading providers of lighting and building management solutions and services for commercial, institutional, industrial, infrastructure, and residential applications throughout North America and select international markets. The Company’s lighting and building management solutions include devices such as luminaires, lighting controls, controllers for various building systems, power supplies, prismatic skylights, and drivers, as well as integrated systems designed to optimize energy efficiency and comfort for various indoor and outdoor applications. Additionally, the Company continues to expand its solutions portfolio to provide a host of other economic benefits, including software and services that enable the Internet of Things (“IoT”). The Company's IoT solutions provide customers with access to robust data analytics; support the advancement of smart buildings, smart cities, and the smart grid; and allow businesses to develop custom applications to scale their operations. As of November 30, 2017, the Company operates 19 manufacturing facilities and seven distribution facilities along with one warehouse to serve its extensive customer base. 



The Company does not consider acquisitions a critical element of its strategy but seeks opportunities to expand and enhance its portfolio of solutions. No acquisitions were completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 or fiscal 2017.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



The Company’s principal sources of liquidity are operating cash flows generated primarily from its business operations, cash on hand, and various sources of borrowings. The ability of the Company to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to access certain capital markets, including banks, is necessary to fund its operations and capital expenditures, pay dividends, meet its obligations as they become due, and maintain compliance with covenants contained in its financing agreements.



Based on its cash on hand, availability under existing financing arrangements, and current projections of cash flow from operations, the Company believes that it will be able to meet its liquidity needs over the next 12 months. The Company's short-term needs are expected to include funding operations as currently planned, making anticipated capital investments, paying quarterly stockholder dividends as currently anticipated, paying principal and interest on borrowings as currently scheduled, making required contributions to its employee benefit plans, funding potential acquisitions, and potentially repurchasing shares of its outstanding common stock as authorized by the Board of Directors (the “Board”). 



In June 2017, the Board authorized the repurchase of two million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock in the future. The Company expects to repurchase shares on an opportunistic basis. No shares have been purchased under this plan as of November 30, 2017. During fiscal 2018, the Company currently expects to invest approximately two percent of net sales, of which $10.3 million had been invested as of November 30, 2017, in capital expenditures primarily for equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and new and enhanced information technology capabilities. Additionally, management believes that the Company’s cash flows from operations and sources of funding, including, but not limited to, borrowing capacity, will sufficiently support the long-term liquidity needs of the Company.



Cash Flow



The Company uses available cash and cash flow from operations, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options, to fund operations, capital expenditures, and acquisitions, repurchase Company stock, and pay dividends.



21

The Company’s cash position at November 30, 2017 was $428.6 million, an increase of $117.5 million from August 31, 2017. During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the Company generated net cash flows from operations of $139.8 million. Cash generated from operating activities, as well as cash on-hand, was used during the current period primarily to fund capital expenditures of $10.3 million, to pay employee taxes on net settlement of equity awards of $6.0 million, and to pay dividends to stockholders of $5.5 million.



The Company generated $139.8 million of cash flow from operating activities during the three months ended November 30, 2017 compared with $55.8 million in the prior-year period, an increase of $84.0 million, due primarily to lower operating working capital requirements, the timing of payments for income taxes, and lower variable incentive compensation payments for prior year performance. Operating working capital (calculated by adding accounts receivable plus inventories, and subtracting accounts payable-net of acquisitions and the impact of foreign exchange rate changes) decreased approximately $14.0 million during the first three months of fiscal 2018 compared to a $0.1 million increase during the first three months of fiscal 2017.



Management believes that investing in assets and programs that will over time increase the overall return on its invested capital is a key factor in driving stockholder value. The Company invested $10.3 million and $19.5 million in the first three months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively, primarily related to investments in new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology. As noted above, the Company expects to invest approximately two percent of net sales primarily for new equipment, tooling, facility enhancements, and information technology capabilities during fiscal 2018.



Capitalization



The current capital structure of the Company is comprised principally of senior unsecured notes and equity of its stockholders. Total debt outstanding was $356.9 million at November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, and consisted primarily of fixed-rate obligations. 



On December 8, 2009, ABL issued $350.0 million of senior unsecured notes due in fiscal 2020 (the “Unsecured Notes”) in a private placement transaction. The Unsecured Notes were subsequently exchanged for SEC-registered notes with substantially identical terms. The Unsecured Notes bear interest at a rate of 6% per annum and were issued at a price equal to 99.797% of their face value and for a term of 10 years. See the Debt and Lines of Credit footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



On August 27, 2014, the Company executed a revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) with a borrowing capacity of $250.0 million. The Revolving Credit Facility will mature and all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable on August 27, 2019. The Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of November 30, 2017. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility as of November 30, 2017. At November 30, 2017, the Company had additional borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility of $244.7 million under the most restrictive covenant in effect at the time, which represents the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility less outstanding letters of credit of $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of November 30, 2017, the Company had outstanding letters of credit totaling $10.2 million, primarily for securing collateral requirements under the Company's casualty insurance programs and for providing credit support for the Company’s industrial revenue bond, including $5.3 million issued under the Revolving Credit Facility. See the Debt footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



During the first three months of fiscal 2018, the Company’s consolidated stockholders’ equity increased $60.5 million to $1.73 billion at November 30, 2017, from $1.67 billion at August 31, 2017. The increase was due primarily to net income earned in the period, stock issuances resulting primarily from the exercise of stock options, and amortization of pension plan prior service costs and actuarial losses, partially offset by the payment of dividends, and foreign currency translation adjustments. The Company’s debt to total capitalization ratio (calculated by dividing total debt by the sum of total debt and total stockholders’ equity) was 17.1% and 17.6% at November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, respectively. The ratio of debt, net of cash, to total capitalization, net of cash, was (4.3)% at November 30, 2017 and 2.7% at August 31, 2017.



Dividends



Acuity Brands paid dividends on its common stock of $5.5 million and $5.8 million ($0.13 per share) during the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. All decisions regarding the declaration and payment of dividends by Acuity Brands are at the discretion of the Board and are evaluated regularly in light of the Company’s financial condition, earnings, growth prospects, funding requirements, applicable law, and any other factors the Board deems relevant.



22

Results of Operations



First Quarter of Fiscal 2018 Compared with First Quarter of Fiscal 2017 



The following table sets forth information comparing the components of net income for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016 (in millions except per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net sales were $842.8 million for the three months ended November 30, 2017 compared with $851.2 million reported for the three months ended November 30, 2016, a decrease of $8.4 million, or 1.0%. For the three months ended November 30, 2017, the Company reported net income of $71.5 million, a decrease of $10.2 million, or 12.5%, compared with $81.7 million for the three months ended November 30, 2016. For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, diluted earnings per share decreased 8.6% to $1.70 compared with $1.86 reported in the year-ago period.



The following table reconciles certain U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) financial measures to the corresponding non-U.S. GAAP measures referred to in the discussion of the Company’s results of operations, which exclude the impact of certain manufacturing inefficiencies, amortization of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense, special charges associated primarily with continued efforts to streamline the organization, and a gain on the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate. Although the impacts of these items have been recognized in prior periods and could recur in future periods, management typically excludes these charges during internal reviews of performance and uses these non-U.S. GAAP measures for baseline comparative operational analysis, decision making, and other activities. Primarily due to the impact of the four acquisitions completed during fiscal 2016, the Company experienced noticeable increases in amortization of acquired intangibles, share-based payments used to improve retention and align the interest of key leaders of acquired businesses, and special charges due to activities to streamline and integrate those acquisitions. These non-U.S. GAAP financial measures, including adjusted gross profit and margin, adjusted selling, distribution, and administrative (“SD&A”) expenses, adjusted operating profit and margin, adjusted other expense, adjusted net income, and adjusted diluted earnings per share, are provided to enhance the user’s overall understanding of the Company’s current financial performance. Specifically, the Company believes these non-U.S. GAAP measures provide greater comparability and enhanced visibility into the Company's results of operations. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for or superior to, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.



23

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________________ 



(1) Incremental costs incurred due to manufacturing inefficiencies directly related to the closure of a facility.



24

Net Sales



Net sales for the three months ended November 30, 2017 decreased 1.0% compared with the prior-year period due primarily to an approximately 1% decrease in sales volume and the unfavorable impact of changes in product prices and the mix of products sold (“price/mix”) of approximately 1%, partially offset by the favorable impact from foreign exchange rate changes of approximately 1%. Sales of LED-based products during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 accounted for approximately two-thirds of total net sales. Overall sales decreased compared to the prior year due primarily to the expected tepid conditions within the North American non-residential lighting market, as well as declines in the home center/showroom channel and certain international channels. The change in price/mix was due primarily to lower pricing on luminaires, reflecting the decline in certain LED component costs as well as increased competition in more basic, lesser-featured products. Due to the changing dynamics of the Company's product portfolio, including the increase of integrated lighting and building management solutions, it is not possible to precisely quantify or differentiate the individual components of volume, price, and mix. 



Gross Profit



Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $9.4 million, or 2.6%, to $350.2 million compared with $359.6 million in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin decreased 60 basis points to 41.6% for the three months ended November 30, 2017 compared with 42.2% in the prior-year period. Gross profit margin was lower than the prior-year period due primarily to lower net sales, unfavorable price/mix, and higher input costs for certain commodity-related items, such as steel. These declines were partially offset by lower costs for certain LED components and productivity improvements. Adjusted gross profit for the three months ended November 30, 2017 was $350.2 million (41.6% of net sales) compared with $361.2 million (42.4% of net sales) in the prior-year period.



Operating Profit



SD&A expenses for the three months ended November 30, 2017 were $231.4 million compared with $231.8 million in the prior-year period, a decrease of $0.4 million, or 0.2%. The decrease in SD&A expenses was due primarily to lower sales commissions, largely offset by higher salaried employee costs including share-based payment expense and higher amortization of intangible assets. SD&A expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were 27.5% of net sales compared with 27.2% for the prior-year period. Adjusted SD&A expenses for the three months ended November 30, 2017 were $216.3 million (25.7% of net sales) compared with $218.0 million (25.6% of net sales) in the prior-year period.



The Company recognized pre-tax special charges related to prior fiscal year actions of $0.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, compared with pre-tax special charges of $1.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Further details regarding the Company's special charges are included in the Special Charge footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Operating profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $118.6 million (14.1% of net sales) compared with $126.6 million (14.9% of net sales) for the prior-year period, a decrease of $8.0 million, or 6.3%. The decrease in operating profit was due primarily to a decrease in gross profit, partially offset by lower SD&A expenses and special charges.



Adjusted operating profit decreased by $9.3 million, or 6.5%, to $133.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with $143.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2017. Adjusted operating profit margin decreased 90 basis points to 15.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with 16.8% for the year-ago period.



Other Expense (Income)



Other expense (income) consists principally of net interest expense and net miscellaneous income/expense, which includes gains and losses associated with foreign currency-related transactions and non-operating gains and losses. Interest expense, net, was $8.1 million and $8.2 million for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company reported net miscellaneous income of $0.4 million and $7.9 million for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Net miscellaneous income for the three months ended November 30, 2016 included a gain of $7.2 million associated with the sale of an investment in an unconsolidated affiliate.



25

Provision for Income Taxes and Net Income



The Company’s effective income tax rate was 35.5% and 35.3% for the three months ended November 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively.



Net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $10.2 million to $71.5 million from $81.7 million reported for the prior-year period. The decrease in net income resulted primarily from lower operating profit and lower miscellaneous income, partially offset by a smaller provision for income taxes. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November 30, 2017 decreased $0.16 to $1.70 compared with diluted earnings per share of $1.86 for the prior-year period.



Adjusted net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $81.5 million compared with $87.8 million in the prior-year period, which represented an decrease of $6.3 million, or 7.2%. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November 30, 2017 decreased $0.06, or 3.0%, to $1.94 compared with $2.00 for the prior-year period.



Outlook



Management believes that the execution of the Company's strategy will provide opportunities for continued profitable growth. The Company's strategy is to capitalize on market growth opportunities by continuing to expand and leverage its industry-leading lighting and building management solutions portfolio combined with its extensive market presence and financial strength.



Management continues to expect the North American lighting market, the Company’s primary market, to experience low-single digit growth for the fiscal 2018 full year, reflecting an expected rebound in the second half of the year. Management does not foresee a meaningful rebound in demand in the near term in certain international markets that the Company serves. In addition, management expects certain headwinds in the home center/showroom channel to continue in the near term, giving way to growth in the second half of calendar 2018 as the Company brings new solutions to key customers and expands its access to market in this important sales channel. Third-party forecasts suggest that softness in demand in the North American lighting market that began in the third calendar quarter of 2016 will continue through the early part of calendar year 2018, followed by improvement in growth rates later in the year. While current quoting activity remains tepid, both short and long-term fundamental drivers of the markets that the Company serves remain positive. Management expects the pricing environment to continue to be challenging in certain portions of the market, particularly for more basic, lesser-featured products sold through certain sales channels. Management continues to accelerate programs to reduce product costs to maintain the Company’s competitiveness and drive improved profitability. Management expects to continue to outperform the growth rates of the markets that the Company serves by executing its strategies focused on growth opportunities for new construction and renovation projects, expansion into underpenetrated geographies and channels, and growth from the continued introduction of new lighting and building management solutions as part of the Company’s integrated, tiered solutions strategy.



Management expects the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) that was passed on December 22, 2017, to favorably impact the Company’s net income, diluted earnings per share, and cash flows in future periods, due primarily to the reduction in the federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for periods beginning January 1, 2018. Additionally, positive business sentiment and other favorable aspects of the new tax law could incentivize additional investments in facilities and infrastructure in the U.S. that may increase future demand in the end-markets that the Company serves. Management currently estimates that the Company’s blended consolidated effective income tax rate (“tax rate”) for full-year fiscal 2018 will approximate 26 to 28% before discrete items, compared with nearly 35% for the prior year. Management also anticipates that the tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 will be significantly lower than the estimated full-year blended tax rate to cumulatively adjust for the 35.5% tax rate recorded for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Additionally, management currently estimates the second quarter tax expense to be reduced by approximately $30 million for discrete items, primarily due to a non-cash income tax benefit from the remeasurement of the Company’s net U.S. deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by an unfavorable impact related to the taxation of the Company's accumulated unremitted foreign earnings. Management currently estimates that the fiscal 2019 tax rate will approximate 23 to 25% before discrete items. The aforementioned tax-related estimates may differ from actual results, possibly materially, due to changes in interpretations of the Act and assumptions made by the Company, as well as guidance that may be issued and actions the Company may take as a result of the Act.



Notwithstanding the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, a great amount of rhetoric and debate remains regarding a wide range of policy options with respect to monetary, regulatory, and trade, amongst others, that may be pursued by the current U.S. Administration. Any additional policy changes that may be implemented could have a positive or negative consequence on the Company’s financial performance depending on how the changes would influence many factors, including business and consumer sentiment. While management is proactively identifying and evaluating potential 



26

contingency options under various policy scenarios, it is too early to comment or speculate at this time on the potential ramification of these endless scenarios.



From a longer term perspective, management expects that the Company’s addressable markets have the potential to experience solid growth over the next decade, particularly as energy and environmental concerns come to the forefront along with emerging opportunities for digital lighting to play a key role in the IoT through the use of intelligent networked lighting and building automation systems that can collect and exchange data to increase efficiency as well as provide a host of other economic benefits resulting from data analytics. Management remains positive about the future prospects of the Company and its ability to outperform the markets it serves.



Critical Accounting Estimates



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations addresses the financial condition and results of operations as reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As discussed in the Description of Business and Basis of Presentation footnote of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition; inventory valuation; amortization and the recoverability of long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets; share-based payment expense; medical, product warranty and recall, and other reserves; retirement benefits; and litigation. Management bases its estimates and judgments on its substantial historical experience and other relevant factors, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management discusses the development of accounting estimates with the Company’s Audit Committee of the Board.



There have been no material changes in the Company’s critical accounting estimates during the current period. For a detailed discussion of significant accounting policies that may involve a higher degree of judgment, please refer to the Company’s Form 10-K.



27

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information



This filing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Statements made herein that may be considered forward-looking include statements incorporating terms such as “expects,” “believes,” “intends,” “anticipates,” and similar terms that relate to future events, performance, or results of the Company. In addition, the Company, or the executive officers on the Company’s behalf, may from time to time make forward-looking statements in reports and other documents the Company files with the SEC or in connection with oral statements made to the press, current and potential investors, or others. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation: (a) the Company’s projections regarding financial performance, liquidity, capital structure, capital expenditures, and dividends; (b) expectations about the impact of softness in demand as well as volatility and uncertainty in general economic conditions and the pricing environment; (c) external forecasts projecting the North American lighting and building management solutions market growth rate and growth in the Company's addressable markets; (d) the Company's ability to execute and realize benefits from initiatives related to streamlining its operations, capitalize on growth opportunities, expand in key markets as well as underpenetrated geographies and channels, and introduce new lighting and building management solutions; (e) the Company’s estimate of its fiscal 2018 and 2019 tax rates, as well as the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on the Company's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows; (f) the Company’s estimate of future amortization expense; (g) the Company’s ability to achieve its long-term financial goals and measures and outperform the markets its serves; (h) the impact to the Company of changes in the political landscape and related policy changes; (i) the Company's projected future capital expenditures and investments; and (j) the Company's expectations about the resolution of trade compliance matters. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. Except as required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this annual report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The Company’s forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the historical experience of the Company and management’s present expectations or projections. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, customer and supplier relationships and prices; competition; ability to realize anticipated benefits from initiatives taken and timing of benefits; market demand; litigation and other contingent liabilities; and economic, political, governmental, and technological factors affecting the Company. Also, additional risks that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the Company’s forward-looking statements are discussed in Part I, Item 1a. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and are specifically incorporated herein by reference.



