PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



The following is provided to update the following risk factors previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-K and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors of the Form 10-Q for the first quarter in Fiscal 2018.



We can provide no assurance that we will continue to have adequate liquidity as we are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs. Our working capital demands can fluctuate greatly due to cash needs to fund new client contracts in advance of contractual payment dates. Due to our decreased revenues and profitability, and increased investments in our business under our transformation efforts, such as ERP migrations previously disclosed, net cash provided by operating activities may be insufficient to fund our operations and growth initiatives. We are dependent upon our senior credit facility to fund our cash needs. 



In August 2017, we amended our senior credit agreement to avoid a default of our then existing leverage covenant. Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019. A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021. 



Based upon our current projections, we may not be able to generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 (ending March 31, 2018) in order to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant for that quarter. If we fail to meet such minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant, the lenders would have the ability to exercise all of their legal and contractual remedies for default including, among others, the right to cease extending credit under the credit facility, to declare all outstanding obligations under the credit facility (including all outstanding indebtedness) to be immediately due and payable, to take action to protect its security interests in the collateral (which is substantially all of the assets of the Company) including taking possession thereof, and to increase the interest rate under the credit facility. 



We are working with our lenders and taking other actions in order to avoid a default under our amended credit facility, or to limit the lenders' remedies in the event of a default. These actions could include, but are not limited to, actions we would not otherwise take, such as asset sales to generate cash and adjusted EBITDA to meet the minimum adjusted EBITDA covenant and cash to reduce our indebtedness. Other actions could include a refinancing of the indebtedness under our amended credit facility with new indebtedness and/or sales of securities. In the event that these actions are pending, we may amend the amended credit agreement to limit the remedies available to the lenders for a certain period of time and under certain terms and conditions to be negotiated.



There can be no assurance that the Company will generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 or in fiscal quarters thereafter in order to avoid a breach of the Amended Credit Agreement. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to limit the remedies of the lenders in the event of such default. As a result, the failure to maintain adequate liquidity or a default under our Amended Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company.



Item 6. Exhibits.



 30

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 31

