Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.



The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of business that include interest-rate volatility and foreign currency exchange rates volatility. Market risk is measured as the potential negative impact on earnings, cash flows or fair values resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates over the next year. The Company does not hold or issue any other financial derivative instruments (other than those specifically noted below) nor does it engage in speculative trading of financial derivatives.



Interest-rate Risk



The Company’s primary interest-rate risk relates to its long-term debt obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement which was $141,750 as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, an instantaneous 100 basis point increase in the interest rate of the variable rate debt would reduce the Company’s earnings in the subsequent fiscal quarter by $359 ($221 net of tax) assuming the Company employed no intervention strategies. The Company expects that its interest rates under the Amended Credit Agreement will be higher than the interest rates under the Credit Agreement thus increasing its exposure to interest on variable rate debt.



 28

Foreign Exchange Rate Risk



The Company has operations, clients and suppliers worldwide, thereby exposing the Company’s financial results to foreign currency fluctuations. In an effort to reduce this risk of foreign currency fluctuations, the Company generally sells and purchases inventory based on prices denominated in U.S. dollars. Intercompany sales to subsidiaries are generally denominated in the subsidiaries’ local currency. The Company has entered and will continue in the future, on a selective basis, to enter into foreign currency contracts to reduce the foreign currency exposure related to certain intercompany transactions, primarily trade receivables and loans. All of the foreign currency contracts have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") until the hedged forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings. Once the forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings, the effective portion of any related gains or losses on the cash flow hedge is reclassified from AOCI to the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the event it becomes probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will not occur, the ineffective portion of any gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge would be reclassified from AOCI to the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.



As of December 31, 2017, the Company had open foreign currency contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen. The open contracts have contract rates ranging from 1.30 to 1.30 Australian dollar, 1.26 to 1.26 Canadian dollar, 6.31 to 6.31 Danish krone, 0.85 to 0.85 Euro, 19.17 to 19.17 Mexican peso, 8.01 to 8.01 Norwegian kroner, 0.75 to 0.76 British pound sterling, 8.16 to 8.16 Swedish krona, 0.97 to 0.97 Swiss franc and 112.15 to 112.15 Japanese yen, all per U.S. dollar. The total open contracts had a notional amount of $33,354 and will expire within three months.



