PART II OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1: Legal Proceedings



SEC Investigation - As disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 3, 2018, we are fully cooperating with an SEC investigation related to the material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K. We continue to believe that the outcome of the investigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company.



We are a party to various other legal proceedings and administrative actions that are incidental to our operations. In our opinion, the proceedings and actions in which we are involved should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, or cash flows. However, since the trends and outcome of this litigation are inherently uncertain, we cannot give absolute assurance regarding the future resolution of such litigation, or that such litigation may not become material in the future.



Item 1A: Risk Factors



There have been no material changes with respect to risk factors as previously disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Set forth below is information regarding our stock repurchases for the three months ended September 29, 2019 (in thousands, except per share amounts).



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) In November 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, which allows us to purchase up to $300.0 million of our common stock through open market repurchases, negotiated transactions, or other means, in accordance with applicable security laws and other regulations. This program is funded with cash on hand and cash flows from operating activities. The program does not have an expiration date and may be suspended at any time at the discretion of the Company. From inception of our program and during the nine months ended September 29, 2019, we have repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock under the program for an aggregate cost of $50.0 million and an average price of $56.19. During the three months ended September 29, 2019, we repurchased 0.5 million shares of our common stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate cost of $27.2 million and an average price per share of $55.17. 



 - 38-



Item 6: Exhibits



Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 - 39-



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 - 40-
