Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



The information in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") should be read in conjunction with the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes set forth in Item 1 of Part I of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, our MD&A set forth in Item 7 of Part II of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 8 of Part II of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," below and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information," above, and the information referenced therein, for a description of risks that we face and important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements. All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted. When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise. All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding. 



  Overview 



Our Company 



We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits. These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries. Bel's portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets. 



We operate through three geographic segments: North America, Asia and Europe. In the six months ended June 30, 2018, 50% of the Company's revenues were derived from North America, 33% from Asia and 17% from its Europe operating segment. By product group, 35% of sales for the six months ended June 30, 2018 related to the Company's connectivity solutions products, 33% in magnetic solutions products and 32% in power solutions and protection products. 



Our operating expenses are driven principally by the cost of labor where the factories that Bel uses are located, the cost of the materials that we use and our ability to effectively and efficiently manage overhead costs. As labor and material costs vary by product line and region, any significant shift in product mix can have an associated impact on our costs of sales. Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured. Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead. Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC. 



We have little visibility into the ordering habits of our customers and we can be subjected to large and unpredictable variations in demand for our products. Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time. These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us. 



Key Factors Affecting our Business 



The Company believes the key factors affecting Bel's results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and/or future results include the following: 



  ·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $13.7 million (or 5.6%) in the first half of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $3.7 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture. Sales growth was seen across all of our major product groups and primarily related to higher sales through our distribution partners during the 2018 period and the new project wins from 2017 moving into production.     



  ·   Backlog – Our backlog reached $176.9 million at June 30, 2018, representing an increase of $30.3 million, or 21%, from December 31, 2017. Since year-end, we saw a 49% increase at Magnetic Solutions, driven by a strong position with our integrated connector modules in next-generation switching products and higher demand for our Signal transformer products for use in medical equipment. The backlog for our Connectivity Solutions products increased by 25%, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and heightened structured cabling demand for our passive connectors. Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 19%, led by higher demand for our power supplies in both traditional data centers and those used for blockchain technology.     



  ·   Product Mix – Material and labor costs vary by product line and any significant shift in product mix between higher- and lower-margin product lines will have a corresponding impact on the Company's gross margin percentage. In general, our connectivity products have the highest contribution margins, our magnetic products are more labor intensive and are therefore less profitable than the connectivity products and our power products are on the lower end of our profit margin range, due to their high material content. Fluctuations in sales volume among our product groups will have a corresponding impact on Bel's profit margins.     



19 



Return to Index  



  ·   Pricing and Availability of Materials – There have been recent supply constraints related to components that constitute raw materials in our manufacturing processes, particularly with resistors, capacitors, mosfets and printed circuit boards. Lead times have been extended and the reduction in supply has also caused an increase in prices for certain of these components. As a result, the Company's material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 41.4% during the first half of 2018 from 40.4% during the first half of 2017.       



  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first half of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first half of 2017 to 11.4% of sales during the first half of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products. Effective February 1, 2018, the PRC government issued an increase to the minimum wage in a region where one of Bel's factories is located. Effective July 1, 2018, government-mandated minimum wage increases will go into effect at Bel's other three manufacturing facilities in the PRC.     



  ·   Restructuring – The Company continues to implement restructuring programs to increase operational efficiencies. While the Company incurred minimal restructuring charges during the first half of 2018, additional restructuring efforts are expected to continue throughout 2018 as we realign our R&D resources dedicated to our power solutions and protection group. We are also in the process of transitioning one of our product lines from a third party factory in Malaysia to an existing Bel facility in the PRC. We anticipate completing these two initiatives by the end of 2018, with minimal restructuring costs incurred. Annual savings of approximately $1.4 million are expected from these initiatives once fully implemented (primarily within cost of sales).     



  ·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first half of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange transactional gains of $0.9 million and higher labor and overhead costs of $3.2 million related to unfavorable fluctuations in exchange rates versus the first half of 2017. Since we are a U.S. domiciled company, we translate our foreign currency-denominated financial results into U.S. dollars. Due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, translating our financial results and the revaluation of certain intercompany as well as third-party transactions to and from foreign currencies to U.S. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact to our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows. The Company was unfavorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange losses during the first half of 2018 due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, and Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during the first half of 2017. The Company has significant manufacturing operations located in the PRC where labor and overhead costs are paid in local currency. As a result, the U.S. Dollar equivalent costs of these operations were $3.2 million higher in the first half of 2018. The Company monitors changes in foreign currencies and may implement pricing actions to help mitigate the impact that changes in foreign currencies may have on its consolidated operating results.     



  ·   Effective Tax Rate – The Company's effective tax rate will fluctuate based on the geographic segment in which our pretax profits are earned. Of the geographic segments in which we operate, the U.S. and Europe's tax rates are generally equivalent; and Asia has the lowest tax rates of the Company's three geographical segments. See Note 9, "Income Taxes".     



While we are optimistic as to the business opportunities we see ahead, we continue to see challenges in labor and material costs, and limited component availability within certain areas of the supply chain. Additionally, on July 6, 2018, the U.S. Trade Representative implemented increased duty percentages across several hundred Harmonized Tariff Codes that cover several thousand products imported from the PRC into the U.S. by Bel. In order to contain and offset these margin challenges, we are invoicing surcharges and pricing adjustments to our customers to cover costs incurred to expedite material lead times and additional duties imposed on products imported from the PRC. In the event that any additional tariff proposals are put into effect later in 2018, we would expect to implement similar measures to preserve our gross margins. 



Summary by Operating Segment 



Net sales to external customers by operating segment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



20 



Return to Index  



The growth in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to increased demand for our passive connector products in structured cabling applications, strength in our connectivity products within key military programs, and higher sales of our transformer products into medical applications. In addition, sales with our Power Solutions business rebounded in 2018 largely due to increased demand for our power supplies in various datacenter applications. The decrease in Asia sales noted above for the second quarter primarily relates to reduced demand for custom module products, which was offset in part by higher sales of our integrated connector modules during the second quarter of 2018. Sales in Europe increased in both 2018 periods presented as a result of higher demand for our Stewart and Cinch connector products in that region, coupled with strong sales of our power products into rail applications. There was also a favorable impact on our European sales in general as a portion of those sales are invoiced in Euros or Pounds, which had appreciated against the U.S. Dollar in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same periods of 2017. 



Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows. Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for customer sales. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The improvement in income from operations within our North America segment was largely due to higher sales volumes in the 2018 periods, partially offset by increased material costs on purchased components. The six-month period of 2018 was also affected by higher labor costs in Mexico, due to the appreciation of the Peso during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period last year. The reduction in income from operations at our Asia segment for the six-month period was primarily due to higher labor costs driven by an increase in minimum wage rates at one of our factories in the PRC and the unfavorable appreciation of the Renminbi during the first half of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017. Asia income from operations was flat year-over-year for the second quarter as higher labor and material costs were offset by a favorable shift in product mix and foreign exchange gains on the remeasurement of foreign exchange transactions. The increase in income from operations from our Europe segment are consistent with the increase in sales for that segment. 



Net Sales 



The Company's net sales by major product line for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Connectivity Solutions: 



Our connectivity solutions products showed an overall improvement in sales of $5.1 million and $6.3 million during the second quarter and first half of 2018, respectively, compared to the same periods of 2017. Sales of our Stewart passive connectors were very strong in the 2018 periods with increases of $3.0 million and $3.5 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to 2017. This was largely led by the successful expansion of its existing products and new product introductions (NPI) through our distribution channels. There was also a recovery in demand for passive connectors for use in structured cabling/premise wiring which had been down last year due to lower spending within the construction industry. Sales of our Cinch products were also up in 2018 (by $2.1 million for the second quarter and by $2.8 million for the six-month period) primarily from the military sector for our optical and copper products used in encryption, communications and flight-grade applications and for our micro-miniature copper connectivity products in relation to key defense programs. 



21 



Return to Index  



Magnetic Solutions: 



Our Magnetic Solutions group benefited from a strong position on next-generation switching products which utilize our integrated connector modules. This accounted for $1.0 million and $3.9 million of the sales growth during the second quarter and six-month period versus 2017. Our Signal Transformer business also contributed with an increase in sales of $1.3 million and $1.6 million during the second quarter and six-month period, as orders from new programs within industrial applications continued to ramp up in the second quarter. 



Power Solutions and Protection: 



The second quarter of 2018 was the first quarter since 2014 where this product group has seen year-over-year sales growth. Our Power Solutions business (acquired in 2014) showed improvement in sales of $3.3 million and $2.1 million during the three and six month period ending June 30, 2018 as compared to the 2017 periods. Excluding the effects of NPS divestiture, sales for the Power Solutions business increased by $5.5 million for the second quarter and by $5.8 million for the first half of 2018 compared to the prior year periods. Our circuit protection products continue to experience top line growth as more of these products are introduced into our distribution channels and our DC/DC product sales were also strong during the 2018 periods. These growth drivers were offset in part by lower sales of our custom module products (which were down by $1.7 million and $1.0 million during the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively). In addition, our AC/DC converter products had specific projects that shipped in the second quarter of 2017 which did not recur in 2018. This led to a reduction in sales for this product line of $1.1 million for the second quarter and $0.8 million for the six month period. 



Cost of Sales 



Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 consisted of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Material costs as a percentage of sales increased during the 2018 periods noted above compared to the same periods of 2017 primarily due to two factors. Starting in late-2017, there have been industry-wide supply constraints related to certain of our purchased components and this has had an unfavorable impact in the form of higher material costs across most of our product lines. In addition, certain of our manufacturing sites outside of the U.S., particularly those in the PRC, invoice in U.S. Dollars, but purchase materials in a mix of U.S. Dollars and local currency. The Renminbi appreciated 7% relative to the U.S. Dollar in the three and six months ended June 2018 versus the same periods last year. As a result, our material costs as a percentage of sales has increased for the 2018 periods noted. 



Labor costs as a percentage of sales also increased during the second quarter and first half of 2018 compared to the same periods of 2017 due to several factors. The appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar drove labor costs as a percentage of sales higher in 2018, as the majority of our Asia sales are invoiced in U.S. Dollars, while our manufacturing staff at PRC locations are paid in local currency. Effective February 1, 2018, the PRC issued an increase to the minimum wage in a region where one of Bel's factories is located, and this contributed to the higher labor costs in the 2018 periods.  



22 



Return to Index  



Included in cost of sales is research and development ("R&D") expense of $7.4 million and $6.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $14.7 million and $13.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The majority of the increase from the 2017 periods relates to the continued weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies in the countries in which our engineers are located. Approximately 85% of our global engineering staff is located outside of the U.S. and is paid in either Euros, Pounds, Swiss Francs or Renminbi, each of which has appreciated against the U.S. Dollar since the first half of 2017. 



The other expenses noted in the table above include fixed cost items such as support labor and fringe, depreciation and amortization, and facility costs (rent, utilities, insurance). In total, these other expenses increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 by $0.5 million and $2.1 million, respectively, as compared to the same periods of 2017. This included higher support labor costs of $0.2 million and $1.4 million, respectively, due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, Swiss Franc and Renminbi as compared to the U.S. Dollar as compared to the 2017 periods. 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense ("SG&A") 



SG&A expense decreased $3.4 million and $3.7 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, as compared with the same periods of 2017. This primarily related to a favorable fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates on the remeasurement of foreign currency transactions, which accounted for $3.5 million and $3.0 million, respectively, of the decrease noted from the 2017 periods. Other offsetting factors that affected the variance in the second quarter periods are lower general and administrative costs of $0.4 million and reduced depreciation and amortization expense of $0.5 million, offset by a $0.6 million increase in bad debt expense and higher sales commissions of $0.3 million. Other factors contributing to the reduction in SG&A during the six-month period were lower legal and professional fees of $0.8 million and a reduction in depreciation and amortization of $0.7 million. These factors were partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense of $0.6 million during the first half of 2018. 



Provision for Income Taxes 



The Company's effective tax rate will fluctuate based on the geographic segment in which the pretax profits are earned. Of the geographic segments in which the Company operates, the U.S. and Europe's tax rates are generally equivalent; and Asia has the lowest tax rates of the Company's three geographical segments. See Note 9, "Income Taxes". 



The provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $2.4 million and $2.3 million, respectively. The Company's earnings before income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2018, were approximately $3.6 million higher than the same period in 2017, primarily attributable to increases in income in the Europe and North America segments. The Company's effective tax rate was 26.6% and 42.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, is primarily attributable to a decrease in tax expense in the North America segment due to the reduction in the U.S. tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018, as well as a decrease in the taxes related to uncertain tax positions. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in U.S. taxes relating to income from foreign subsidiaries taxed in the U.S. as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Additionally, the decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to the same period in 2017, is attributable to U.S. and foreign taxes accrued for gains recognized on a Bel Fuse legal entity restructuring transaction during the three months ended June 30, 2017. See Note 9, "Income Taxes." 



The provision for income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $2.7 million and $2.3 million, respectively. The Company's earnings before income taxes for the six months ended June 30, 2018 were approximately $1.9 million higher than the same period in 2017, primarily attributable to increases in income in the Europe and North America segments. The Company's effective tax rate was 33.8% and 37.0% for the six month periods ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate during the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, is primarily attributable to a decrease in tax expense in the North America segment due to the reduction in the U.S. tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018, as well as a decrease in taxes related to uncertain tax positions. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in U.S. taxes relating to income from foreign subsidiaries taxed in the U.S. as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Additionally, the decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, is attributable to U.S. and foreign taxes accrued for gains recognized on a Bel Fuse legal entity restructuring transaction during the 2017 period. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our primary sources of cash are the collection of trade receivables generated from the sales of our products and services to our customers and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash are payments for operating expenses, investments in working capital, capital expenditures, interest, taxes, dividends, debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. We believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above in the next twelve months. 



23 



Return to Index  



At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $46.0 million and $50.5 million, respectively (or 82% and 73%, respectively), of cash and cash equivalents was held by foreign subsidiaries of the Company. Management has current intentions to repatriate approximately $12 million of funds from outside of the U.S., with a minimal incremental tax liability, with the intent of utilizing $3 million to reduce our outstanding debt balance and $9 million to pay down intercompany balances that have been generating foreign exchange gains/losses in our consolidated statement of operations. We continue to analyze our global working capital and cash requirements and the potential tax liabilities attributable to further repatriation, and we have yet to make any further determination regarding repatriation of funds from outside the U.S. to fund the Company's U.S. operations in the future. In the event these funds were needed for Bel's U.S. operations, the Company would be required to accrue and pay U.S. state taxes and any applicable foreign withholding taxes to repatriate these funds. 



Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable comprised approximately 33.1% of the Company's total assets at June 30, 2018 and 34.4% of total assets at December 31, 2017. The Company's current ratio (i.e., the ratio of current assets to current liabilities) was 2.9 to 1 at June 30, 2018 and 3.0 to 1 at December 31, 2017. 



In June 2014, the Company entered into a senior Credit and Security Agreement, which was subsequently amended in March 2016, and further amended and refinanced in December 2017. The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined ("Leverage Ratio"), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges ("Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio"). If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit and Security Agreement would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At June 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with its debt covenants, including its most restrictive covenant, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio. The unused credit available under the credit facility at June 30, 2018 was $75.0 million, of which we had the ability to borrow $30.4 million without violating our Leverage Ratio covenant based on the Company's existing consolidated EBITDA. 



We are currently engaged in a multi-year process of conforming the majority of our operations onto one global ERP. The ERP is designed to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes, accurately maintain our books and records, and provide information important to the operation of the business to our management team. The implementation of the ERP is being conducted by business unit on a three phase approach through 2019. We currently estimate total costs over the course of this project to be between $4.5 million to $5.5 million. Since inception of the project, we have incurred a cumulative amount of $4.1 million in connection with this implementation, of which $0.9 million and $1.2 million was incurred during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. These costs are included in SG&A on the consolidated financial statements. Upon completion of the implementation of the new ERP, we anticipate lower maintenance and lower external information and technology support fees resulting in annual savings of approximately $2 million. The preceding sentence represents a Forward-Looking Statement. See "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." 



Cash Flows 



Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 



During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company's cash and cash equivalents decreased by $13.6 million. This decrease was primarily due to the following: 



  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $5.9 million;     



  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $7.5 million; and     



  ·   dividend payments of $1.6 million; partially offset by     



  ·   net cash provided by operations of $1.2 million.     



During the six months ended June 30, 2018, accounts receivable increased by $10.5 million primarily due to higher sales volume in the second quarter of 2018 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2017. Days sales outstanding (DSO) declined to 58 days at June 30, 2018 from 60 days at December 31, 2017. Effective January 1, 2018, the Company implemented a change in the timing of revenue recognition (and related release of inventory from our books) in connection with the adoption of ASC 606, as described in Note 2. Excluding the adoption adjustment related to this accounting change, inventory increased by $10.6 million at June 30, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017, primarily in raw materials. The increased raw materials balance was driven by a higher volume of raw materials purchased to accommodate increased demand for our products, coupled with higher material costs in 2018 resulting from constraints in component availability. Inventory turns increased from 3.6 at December 31, 2017 to 4.2 at June 30, 2018, primarily due to the change in revenue recognition accounting noted above. 



Six Months Ended June 30, 2017 



During the six months ended June 30, 2017, the Company's cash and cash equivalents decreased by $14.7 million. This decrease was primarily due to the following: 



24 



Return to Index  



  ·   net cash used in operating activities of $0.4 million;     



  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $2.2 million;     



  ·   dividend payments of $1.6 million; and     



  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $15.4 million.     



During the six months ended June 30, 2017, accounts receivable increased by $13.8 million primarily due to higher sales volume in the second quarter of 2017 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. Days sales outstanding (DSO) increased to 62 days at June 30, 2017 from 54 days at December 31, 2016, primary due the extension of credit terms with one of our large customers, as well as the increase in revenue (and resulting accounts receivable balance) in our Asia segment where DSO tends to be higher as compared to our other geographic segments. Inventory levels were up by $2.7 million at June 30, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 as raw materials and work in progress balances increased from year-end levels to accommodate increased demand for our products. 



Critical Accounting Policies 



Management's discussion and analysis of Bel's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, investments, warranties, SERP expense, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 



Recent Accounting Pronouncements 



The discussion of new financial accounting standards applicable to the Company is incorporated herein by reference to Note 1 to the Company's Financial Statements, "Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies," included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



