Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



The information in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") should be read in conjunction with the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes set forth in Item 1 of Part I of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, our MD&A set forth in Item 7 of Part II of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and related notes set forth in Item 8 of Part II of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," below and "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Information," above, and the information referenced therein, for a description of risks that we face and important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements. All amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding and all dollars are in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted. When we cross-reference to a "Note," we are referring to our "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements," unless the context indicates otherwise. All amounts noted within the tables are in thousands and amounts and percentages are approximate due to rounding. 



  Overview 



Our Company 



We design, manufacture and market a broad array of products that power, protect and connect electronic circuits. These products are primarily used in the networking, telecommunications, computing, military, aerospace, transportation and broadcasting industries. Bel's portfolio of products also finds application in the automotive, medical and consumer electronics markets. 



We operate through three geographic segments: North America, Asia and Europe. In the three months ended March 31, 2018, 50% of the Company's revenues were derived from North America, 33% from Asia and 17% from its Europe operating segment. By product group, 36% of sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to the Company's connectivity solutions products, 32% in magnetic solutions products and 32% in power solutions and protection products. 



Our operating expenses are driven principally by the cost of labor where the factories that Bel uses are located, the cost of the materials that we use and our ability to effectively and efficiently manage overhead costs. As labor and material costs vary by product line and region, any significant shift in product mix can have an associated impact on our costs of sales. Costs are recorded as incurred for all products manufactured. Such amounts are determined based upon the estimated stage of production and include labor cost and fringes and related allocations of factory overhead. Our products are manufactured at various facilities in the U.S., Mexico, Dominican Republic, England, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the PRC. 



We have little visibility into the ordering habits of our customers and we can be subjected to large and unpredictable variations in demand for our products. Accordingly, we must continually recruit and train new workers to replace those lost to attrition and be able to address peaks in demand that may occur from time to time. These recruiting and training efforts and related inefficiencies, and overtime required in order to meet any increase in demand, can add volatility to the labor costs incurred by us. 



Key Factors Affecting our Business 



The Company believes the key factors affecting Bel's results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and/or future results include the following: 



  ·   Revenues – The Company's revenues increased by $4.6 million (or 4.0%) in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017, despite a $1.6 million decline in sales related to the NPS divestiture. The majority of the sales growth in the first quarter related to strong demand for our Magnetic Solutions products, particularly our integrated connector modules within industrial, Ethernet and server markets. Sales of our Connectivity Solutions products were also higher in the first quarter of 2018 with an increase in demand related to various military programs and within the industrial market for oil and gas, test and measurement, and broadcasting applications. Our Power Solutions and Protection group, excluding the effects of our divested NPS business, also contributed to our year-over-year sales growth.     



  ·   Backlog – Our backlog reached $178.3 million at March 31, 2018, representing an increase of $31.8 million, or 22%, from December 31, 2017. Since year-end, we saw a 33% increase in the backlog at Connectivity Solutions, driven by recent awards on key military programs, and a 25% increase at Magnetic Solutions, driven by demand for our multi-gig variants of ICMs from our key networking customers. Our Power Solutions and Protection backlog grew by 12%, led by higher demand for our power supplies in the industrial and rail industries, and orders from new customers within the E-Mobility, Internet of Things and Blockchain segments.     



  ·   Product Mix – Material and labor costs vary by product line and any significant shift in product mix between higher- and lower-margin product lines will have a corresponding impact on the Company's gross margin percentage. In general, our connectivity products have the highest contribution margins, our magnetic products are more labor intensive and are therefore less profitable than the connectivity products and our power products are on the lower end of our profit margin range, due to their high material content. Fluctuations in sales volume among our product groups will have a corresponding impact on Bel's profit margins.     



18 



Return to Index  



  ·   Pricing and Availability of Materials – There have been recent supply constraints related to components that constitute raw materials in our manufacturing processes, particularly with resistors, capacitors and discrete semiconductors. Lead times have been extended and the reduction in supply has also caused an increase in prices for certain of these components. As a result, the Company's material costs as a percentage of sales increased to 40.8% during the first quarter of 2018 from 40.1% during the first quarter of 2017.       



  ·   Labor Costs – Labor costs during the first quarter of 2018 increased from 10.2% of sales during the first quarter of 2017 to 11.3% of sales during the first quarter of 2018, primarily due to the appreciation of the Renminbi and Peso against the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC, and growth in sales of our labor-intensive integrated connector module (ICM) products.     



  ·   Restructuring – The Company continues to implement restructuring programs to increase operational efficiencies. While the Company incurred minimal restructuring charges during the first quarter of 2018, additional restructuring efforts are expected to continue throughout 2018 as we realign our R&D resources dedicated to our power solutions and protection group. We are also in the process of transitioning one of our product lines from a third party factory in Malaysia to an existing Bel facility in the PRC. We anticipate completing these two initiatives by the end of the third quarter of 2018, with minimal restructuring costs incurred. Annual savings of approximately $1.4 million are expected from these initiatives once fully implemented (primarily within cost of sales).     



  ·   Impact of Foreign Currency – During the first quarter of 2018, the Company incurred foreign exchange translation losses of $1.0 million and an estimated $1.8 million of transactional foreign exchange losses. Due to the changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, translating our financial results and the revaluation of certain intercompany as well as third-party transactions to and from foreign currencies to U.S. dollars may result in a favorable or unfavorable impact to our consolidated statements of operations and cash flows. The Company was unfavorably impacted by transactional foreign exchange losses during the first quarter of 2018 due to the appreciation of the Euro, Pound, Renminbi and Peso against the U.S. dollar as compared to exchange rates in effect during the first quarter of 2017. The Company has significant manufacturing operations located in the PRC and in Mexico where labor and overhead costs are paid in local currencies. As a result, the U.S. Dollar equivalent costs of these operations were higher in the first quarter of 2018. The Company monitors changes in foreign currencies and may implement pricing actions to help mitigate the impact that changes in foreign currencies may have on its consolidated operating results.     



  ·   Effective Tax Rate – The Company's effective tax rate will fluctuate based on the geographic segment in which our pretax profits are earned. Of the geographic segments in which we operate, the U.S. and Europe's tax rates are generally equivalent; and Asia has the lowest tax rates of the Company's three geographical segments. See Note 9, "Income Taxes" and the "Tax Reform" discussion below.     



While we are optimistic on the revenue front for 2018, we do see some challenges on the cost side this year. Our results for the first quarter of 2018 were impacted by the weakening of the U.S. Dollar, minimum wage increases in the PRC and supply constraints related to certain of our purchased components across most of our product lines. Furthermore, our Power Solutions business has had an unfavorable impact on our bottom line at its current level of sales, and we will continue to assess our plan to restore the Power Solutions business to a position of profitability. Lastly, there have been recent tariff proposals on U.S. imports that may impact our business. We are carefully monitoring the status of these proposals and evaluating various options in the event they are put into effect.  Our management team will continue to work diligently to help mitigate these unfavorable impacts wherever possible. 



Summary by Operating Segment 



Net sales to external customers by operating segment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



19 



Return to Index  



The decline in North America sales in 2018 was largely due to lower sales from the previously-divested NPS business, which accounted for a $1.6 million decline in sales from the first quarter of 2017. Excluding the impact of the NPS divestiture, sales in North America increased, primarily due to increased demand for our connectivity products within key military programs, and increased sales of our Stewart products through distribution. The increase in Asia sales noted above primarily relates to increased demand for our ICM/TRP products during the first quarter of 2018, as those sales increased by $2.9 million compared with the first quarter of 2017. Sales within our Europe segment increased by $2.7 million due to higher sales of our power products within rail and industrial applications as well as strong demand for our AC/DC converter products out of Italy. There was also a favorable impact on our European sales in general as a portion of those sales are invoiced in Euros or Pounds, which had appreciated against the U.S. Dollar in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017. 



Net sales and income from operations by operating segment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows. Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for customer sales. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The decline in income from operations within our North America segment was largely due to higher material costs in the first quarter of 2018 on purchased components, which had been experiencing supply shortages, as well as an increase in the price of certain commodities, such as copper. Our North America profit was also impacted by higher labor costs in Mexico, due to the appreciation of the Peso during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period last year. The reduction in income from operations at our Asia segment was primarily due to higher labor costs driven by an increase in minimum wage rates at one of our factories in the PRC and the unfavorable appreciation of the Renminbi during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017. The increase in income from operations from our Europe segment are consistent with the increase in sales for that segment. 



Net Sales 



The Company's net sales by major product line for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Connectivity Solutions: 



Our connectivity solutions products showed an overall improvement in sales of $1.2 million during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017. Sales within our Cinch businesses were strong in 2018, up $0.7 million from the first quarter of 2017, led by increased activity within key military-aerospace programs and higher sales through our distribution channels. Our Stewart business added to the growth within this group in 2018, contributing $0.5 million of additional sales in 2018 versus the 2017 period as it was successful in expanding the presence of its products within distribution channels. 



20 



Return to Index  



Magnetic Solutions: 



Demand for our ICM/TRP products continued to be strong through the first quarter of 2018 for both our established 1-gig and 10-gig ICMs as well as our recently released multi-gig variants, contributing $2.9 million of the increase in magnetic solutions sales noted above. Sales within our Signal Transformer business also grew by 8.3% ($0.3 million) as orders from new programs within industrial applications began to ship in late 2017 and throughout the first quarter of 2018. 



Power Solutions and Protection: 



Sales within our overall power solutions and protection group remained steady from 2017 levels. The 2018 period included higher custom module sales of $0.7 million, a $0.4 million increase in sales of our AC/DC converter products at our Bel Power Europe group in Italy (acquired in 2012) and higher circuit protection product sales of $0.2 million as compared to the first quarter of 2017. These growth drivers were offset in full by a $1.2 million decline in sales within our Power Solutions business, which continues to be impacted by the divestiture of the NPS business. Excluding the effects of NPS divestiture, sales for the Power Solutions business increased by $0.3 million in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the same period of 2017. 



Cost of Sales 



Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 consisted of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Material costs as a percentage of sales increased during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 primarily due to two factors. Starting in late-2017, there have been industry-wide supply constraints related to certain of our purchased components and this has had an unfavorable impact in the form of higher material costs across most of our product lines. In addition, certain of our manufacturing sites outside of the U.S., particularly those in the PRC, invoice in U.S. Dollars, but purchase materials in a mix of U.S. Dollars and local currency. With the appreciation of the Renminbi of 8% compared to the first quarter of 2017, our material costs as a percentage of sales has increased. 



Labor costs as a percentage of sales also increased during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 due to several factors. The appreciation of the Renminbi and the Peso against the U.S. Dollar drove labor costs as a percentage of sales higher in 2018, as the majority of our sales related to product manufactured in the PRC and Mexico are invoiced in U.S. Dollars, while our manufacturing staff in those locations are paid in local currency. In addition, wage rates in the PRC, which are mandated by the government, now have higher minimum wage and overtime requirements. Effective February 1, 2018, the PRC issued an increase to the minimum wage in a region where one of Bel's factories is located, and this contributed to the higher labor costs in the 2018 period. Lastly, there was a 9.7% increase in sales of our ICM products in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017. Our ICM products are labor-intensive in nature and the manufacturing staff related to those products is located in the PRC. 



Included in cost of sales is research and development ("R&D") expense of $7.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The majority of the increase from 2017 relates to the continued weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies in the countries in which our engineers are located. Approximately 85% of our global engineering staff is located outside of the U.S. and is paid in either Euros, Pounds, Francs or Renminbi, each of which has appreciated against the U.S. Dollar since the first quarter of 2017. 



The other expenses noted in the table above include fixed cost items such as support labor and fringe, depreciation and amortization, and facility costs (rent, utilities, insurance). In total, these other expenses increased during the first quarter of 2018 by $1.5 million as compared to the same period of 2017. This included a $1.2 million increase in support labor and fringe benefit costs, primarily driven by higher compensation costs related to our support staff in the PRC due to the 8% appreciation of the Renminbi as compared to the U.S. Dollar. 



21 



Return to Index  



Selling, General and Administrative Expense ("SG&A") 



SG&A expense decreased $0.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared with the same period of 2017. This primarily related to lower legal and professional fees of $0.9 million and a decrease in depreciation and amortization expense of $0.2 million, largely offset by higher foreign exchange losses of $0.5 million and increased salaries and fringe benefit costs of $0.3 million compared to the 2017 period. 



Provision for Income Taxes 



The Company's effective tax rate will fluctuate based on the geographic segment in which the pretax profits are earned. Of the geographic segments in which the Company operates, the U.S. and Europe's tax rates are generally equivalent; and Asia has the lowest tax rates of the Company's three geographical segments. See Note 9, "Income Taxes" and the "Tax Reform" discussion below. 



The provision (benefit) for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $0.3 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively. The Company's earnings (loss) before income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2018, were approximately $1.7 lower than the same period in 2017, primarily attributable to significant losses in the Asia and North America segments. The Company's effective tax rate was (33.2%) and (3.2%) for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The change in the effective tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017, is primarily attributable to a decrease in the benefit arising from the losses in the North America segment due to the reduction in the U.S. tax rate from 35% in 2017 to 21% in 2018. Additionally, there was an increase in the liability for uncertain tax positions in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the same period in 2017. See Note 9, "Income Taxes." 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our primary sources of cash are the collection of trade receivables generated from the sales of our products and services to our customers and amounts available under our existing lines of credit, including our credit facility. Our primary uses of cash are payments for operating expenses, investments in working capital, capital expenditures, interest, taxes, dividends, debt obligations and other long-term liabilities. We believe that our current liquidity position and future cash flows from operations will enable us to fund our operations, including all of the items mentioned above in the next twelve months. 



At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $52.3 million and $50.5 million, respectively (or 78% and 73%, respectively), of cash and cash equivalents was held by foreign subsidiaries of the Company. Management has current intentions to repatriate approximately $6 million of funds from outside of the U.S., with a minimal incremental tax liability, with the intent of reducing our outstanding debt balance. We continue to analyze our global working capital and cash requirements and the potential tax liabilities attributable to further repatriation, and we have yet to make any further determination regarding repatriation of funds from outside the U.S. to fund the Company's U.S. operations in the future. In the event these funds were needed for Bel's U.S. operations, the Company would be required to accrue and pay U.S. state taxes and any applicable foreign withholding taxes to repatriate these funds. 



Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable comprised approximately 33.0% of the Company's total assets at March 31, 2018 and 34.4% of total assets at December 31, 2017. The Company's current ratio (i.e., the ratio of current assets to current liabilities) was 3.1 to 1 at March 31, 2018 and 3.0 to 1 at December 31, 2017. 



In June 2014, the Company entered into a senior Credit and Security Agreement, which was subsequently amended in March 2016, and further amended and refinanced in December 2017. The Credit and Security Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined ("Leverage Ratio"), and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges ("Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio"). If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the Credit and Security Agreement would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor. At March 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with its debt covenants, including its most restrictive covenant, the Leverage Ratio. The unused credit available under the credit facility at March 31, 2018 was $75.0 million, of which we had the ability to borrow $25.7 million without violating our Leverage Ratio covenant based on the Company's existing consolidated EBITDA. 



We are currently engaged in a multi-year process of conforming the majority of our operations onto one global ERP. The ERP is designed to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes, accurately maintain our books and records, and provide information important to the operation of the business to our management team. The implementation of the ERP is being conducted by business unit on a three phase approach through 2019. We currently estimate total costs over the course of this project to be between $4 million to $5 million. Since inception of the project, we have incurred a cumulative amount of $3.3 million in connection with this implementation, of which $0.3 million was incurred during the three months ended March 31, 2018. These costs are included in SG&A on the consolidated financial statements. Upon completion of the implementation of the new ERP, we anticipate lower maintenance and lower external information and technology support fees resulting in annual savings of approximately $2 million. The preceding sentence represents a Forward-Looking Statement. See "Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." 



22 



Return to Index  



Cash Flows 



Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 



During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company's cash and cash equivalents decreased by $2.5 million. This decrease was primarily due to the following: 



  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $2.2 million;     



  ·   repayments of long-term debt of $0.8 million; and     



  ·   dividend payments of $0.8 million; partially offset by     



  ·   net cash provided by operations of $0.3 million.     



During the three months ended March 31, 2018, accounts receivable decreased by $2.5 million primarily due to lower sales volume in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2017. Days sales outstanding (DSO) declined to 58 days at March 31, 2018 from 60 days at December 31, 2017. Inventory increased by $4.7 million at March 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017, primarily due to a change in the timing of revenue recognition (and related release of inventory from our books) in connection with the adoption of ASC 606, as described in Note 2. This change in accounting was also the main driver in an increase in inventory turns from 3.6 at December 31, 2017 to 3.8 at March 31, 2018. 



Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 



During the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company's cash and cash equivalents decreased by $1.1 million. This decrease was due to the following: 



  ·   net cash used in operating activities of $0.7 million;     



  ·   purchases of property, plant and equipment of $1.0 million; and     



  ·   dividend payments of $0.8 million; partially offset by     



  ·   net borrowings of long-term debt during the quarter of $1.5 million.     



During the three months ended March 31, 2017, accounts receivable decreased by $2.0 million primarily due to lower sales volume in the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. Days sales outstanding (DSO) increased to 58 days at March 31, 2017 from 54 days at December 31, 2016, primary due to a 32% increase in sales from February to March 2017. Inventory levels were up by $2.4 million at March 31, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 as raw materials and work in progress balances increased from year-end levels to accommodate the anticipated increase in sales for the second half of 2017. 



Critical Accounting Policies 



Management's discussion and analysis of Bel's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, investments, warranties, SERP expense, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 



23 



Return to Index  



Recent Accounting Pronouncements 



The discussion of new financial accounting standards applicable to the Company is incorporated herein by reference to Note 1 to the Company's Financial Statements, "Basis of Presentation and Accounting Policies," included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



