 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



 The Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A, describes principal factors affecting the results of our operations, financial condition and liquidity, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates that require significant judgment and thus have the most significant potential impact on our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quartely Report on Form 10-Q. Our MD&A is organized as follows:  



   ·    Overview. This section provides a general description of our business and operating segments, as well as a brief discussion and overall analysis of our business and financial performance, including key developments affecting the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. 



   ·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application. We believe these accounting policies and estimates are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. 



   ·    Results of Operations. This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016. 



   ·    Liquidity and Capital Resources. This section provides an analysis of our liquidity and changes in cash flows, as well as a discussion of available borrowings and contractual commitments. 



 You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page 3 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical information, the MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read “Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements” included below for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations.  



 Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements  



 This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “continue,” “likely” or similar statements or variations of such terms. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, margins, costs, earnings, profitability, product development, demand, acceptance and market share, competitiveness, market opportunities and performance, levels of research and development, the success of our marketing, sales and service efforts, outsourced activities, operating expenses, anticipated manufacturing, customer and technical requirements, the ongoing viability of the solutions that we offer and our customers’ success, tax expenses, our management’s plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus, our adoption of the newly issued accounting guidance, the levels of customer spending, general economic conditions, the sufficiency of financial resources to support future operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions. Such statements are based on current expectations and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, our performance or our achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 and which are incorporated herein by reference. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q or to reflect the occurrence or effect of 



 26  



 Table of Contents  



anticipated or unanticipated events. Precautionary statements made herein should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q. Any additional precautionary statements made in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements whenever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.  



 Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  



 OVERVIEW  



 We are a leading global provider of automation and cryogenic solutions for multiple applications and markets. We primarily serve the semiconductor capital equipment market and sample management market for life sciences. Our leadership position and global support structure in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to the some of the world’s largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers, as well as pharmaceutical and life science research institutions in the world. Our offerings are also applied to industrial capital equipment and other adjacent technology markets.  



 In the semiconductor capital equipment market, equipment productivity and availability are critical factors for our customers who typically operate equipment under demanding temperature and/or pressure environments. Our automation and cryogenics capabilities are demonstrated in our various robotic automation and cryogenic vacuum pump offerings, both of which are used by semiconductor manufacturers in the processing of silicon wafers into integrated circuits. Although the demand for semiconductors and semiconductor manufacturing equipment is cyclical, resulting in periodic expansions and contractions of this market, we expect the semiconductor equipment market to remain one of our principal markets as we continue making investments to maintain and grow our semiconductor product and service offerings. We invest in research and development initiatives within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment to maintain continued leadership positions in the markets we serve. A majority of our research and development spending advances our current product lines and drives innovations for new product offerings.   



 In the life sciences sample management market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry. Our offerings include automated ultra-cold storage freezers, consumable sample storage containers, instruments which assist in the workflow of sample management, and both complete on-site and off-site full sample management services. We expect the life sciences sample management market to remain one of our principal markets for our product and service offerings and provide favorable opportunities for the growth of our overall business. Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry. In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications, for a total purchase price of $65.2 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisition will expand our existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment. Please refer to Note 4, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on this transaction. Since entering the life sciences industry, we have also strengthened and broadened our product portfolio and market reach by investing in internal product development. During fiscal years 2017 and 2016, more than 23% of our cumulative research and development spending was focused on innovating and advancing solutions in the life sciences sample management market. In fiscal year 2016, we commercialized the internally developed Biostore III Cryo, an automated system which incorporates sample retrieval, archiving, monitoring, tracking, inventory control, and related enterprise systems connectivity with the industry’s leading cryogenic sample storage freezers. In fiscal year 2017, we launched BioStudies, a bioinformatics sample intelligence software platform that enables customers to manage their global samples. We expect to continue investing in research and development and making strategic acquisitions and other investments with the objective of expanding our offerings in the life sciences sample management market.   



 We report our financial results for two operating and reportable segments which consist of Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the Brooks Life Sciences segment.   



 27  



 Table of Contents  



 Business and Financial Performance  



 Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2016  



 Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased to $189.3 million, or by 18%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin was 39.7% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to 35.6% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $18.3 million. Operating expenses were $54.4 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $43.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017, an increase of $10.6 million. Operating income was $20.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $13.2 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue growth and gross margin improvement drove higher gross profits of $18.3 million, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Net income was $16.5 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $13.9 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $2.6 million was primarily attributable to the increase in operating income of $7.7 million, as noted above, partically offset by the impact of non-operating expenses which reduced net income by $5.3 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.   



 Cash Flows and Liquidity- Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $231.9 million at December 31, 2017 as compared to $104.3 million at September 30, 2017. The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $127.6 million was primarily attributable to cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan and cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from our operating activities, partially offset by cash outflows related to acquisition payments of $65.1 million, dividend payments of $7.1 million made to our shareholders during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, as well as capital expenditures of $2.7 million. Cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from operating activities during the three months ended December 31, 2017 were comprised primarily of earnings of $27.1 million, including net income of $16.5 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $10.6 million, partially offset by uses of cash of $23.9 million related to the changes in our operating assests and liabilities, net of acquisitions. Please refer to "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section below for a detailed discussion of our liquidity and changes in cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016.   



 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  



 Our unaudited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP. The preparation of the interim consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, including those related to revenue, bad debts, inventories, long-lived assets, derivative instruments, goodwill, intangible assets other than goodwill, income taxes, warranty obligations, pensions and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate current and anticipated worldwide economic conditions, both in general and specifically in relation to the semiconductor and life science industries, that serve as a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily determinable based on information from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions that could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  



 For further information with regard to our significant accounting policies and estimates, please refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quartely Report on Form 10‑Q and in the Notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.  



 28  



 Table of Contents  



 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements applicable to our unaudited consolidated financial statements, please refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quartely Report on Form 10‑Q.   



 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



 Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2016  



 Revenue   



 We reported revenue of $189.3 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, compared to $160.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $29.4 million, or 18%. We reported revenue growth in both the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the Brooks Life Sciences segment. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates favorably affected revenue by $2.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 when compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.   



 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported revenue of $141.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $126.6 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $15.3 million, or 12%, reflects increases in sales of cryogenic pump products, robotic automation products and services and related spare parts, partially offset by a decline in sales of contamination controls systems. The increase in revenue includes the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $1.9 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017. The semiconductor markets are cyclical, and often fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Demand for our Brooks Semiconductor Solution Group products is affected by these cycles.  



 Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported revenue of $47.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $33.3 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $14.1 million, or 42%, was primarily from internal growth of $7.7 million, principally in sample storage services, automated storage systems, consumables and instruments, and software. Additionally, the acquisitions of 4titude, Pacific Bio-Material Management, Inc. and Novare, LLC, or PBMMI, and Cool Lab, LLC, or Cool Lab, contributed incremental revenue of $6.4 million. Brooks’ Life Sciences internal revenue growth was favorably affected by foreign currency exchange rates which increased revenue by $0.5 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.  



 Revenue generated outside the United States amounted to $117.2 million, or 62% of total revenue, for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $106.8 million, or 67% of total revenue, for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. We have one customer within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment that accounted for approximately 11% of our consolidated revenue during each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  



 Gross Margin   



 We reported gross margins of 39.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to 35.6% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin increased in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment by 6.0 percentage points and declined in the Brooks Life Sciences segment by 1.2 percentage points. Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 included $0.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively, of charges for amortization related to completed technology, as well as $1.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively, of charges related to the sale of inventories obtained in acquisitions to which a step-up in value was applied in purchase accounting. Excluding the purchasing accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 4.6 percentage points.  



 29  



 Table of Contents  



 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported gross margins of 41.9% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to 35.9% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase is driven by a favorable mix, volume leverage, lower costs related to materials and our service operations and a favorable impact of   



 changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Cost of revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 included $0.5 million and $0.6 million, respectively, of amortization related to completed technology. Excluding the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 5.9 percentage points.   



 Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported gross margins of 33.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to 34.4% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease was a result of higher production costs and higher charges related to the sale of inventories obtained in acquisitions to which a step-up in value was applied in purchase accounting. Such charges were $1.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to $0.1 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. These increases were partially offset by a more favorable mix of products and services, volume leverage and higher margins on automated storage systems, consumables, and sample storage services. Cost of revenue during each of the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 also included $0.4 million of amortization related to completed technology. Excluding the purchasing accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 0.7 percentage points.  



 Research and Development   



 Research and development expenses were $13.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $10.8 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $2.4 million reflects higher costs of $1.4 million within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and $1.0 million within the Brooks Life Sciences segment which were primarily attributable to higher employee-related costs and project spending to support new product development and the growth of our business.   



 Selling, General and Administrative   



 Selling, general and administrative expenses were $41.2 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $32.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $9.2 million was primarily attributable to: (i) higher employee-related costs driven by increased incentive bonuses and higher salaries resulting from hiring additional personnel to support the growth of our business, (ii) higher stock-based compensation expense driven mostly by higher estimates of the expected payout related to the achievement of performance goals for our performance-based awards, as well as (iii) higher expenses related to the acquisitions of PBMMI and 4titude. Amortization expense related primarily to customer relationships was $4.6 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $3.1 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Merger-related costs were $0.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  



 30  



 Table of Contents  



 Restructuring Charges  



 There were no restructuring charges recorded during the three months ended December 31, 2017. During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we recorded restructuring charges of $1.0 million which were related to severance and comprised of: (i) $0.7 million of costs related to the Company-wide restructuring action, (ii) $0.2 million of costs attributable to the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment related to the integration of Contact Co., Ltd. which we acquired in fiscal year 2015, and (iii) $0.1 million of costs attributable to the Brooks Life Sciences segment related to streamlining the segment's management structure, integrating acquisitions and improving profitability. Please refer to Note 15, “Restructuring and Other Charges” to our consolidated financial statements and “Restructuring Charges” to our consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on these restructuring actions.  



 Non-Operating Income (Expenses)  



 Gain on Settlement of Equity Method Investment- During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we recognized a gain of $1.8 million on the settlement of the equity method investment in BioCision which was included as a part of the non-cash consideration for an acquisition of Cool Lab in November 2016. Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to our consolidated financial statements included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.  



 Interest Expense- During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded interest expense of $2.2 million which was primarily related to the term loan originated on October 4, 2017. Please refer to the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section below for further information on the term loan.  



 Other expenses, net. During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recorded other expenses, net of $1.7 million and $0.3 million respectively. The increase of $1.4 million was primarily attributable to an increase in foreign currency exchange losses during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Please refer to Item 3. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Currency Rate Exposure” in this Quartely Report on Form 10-Q for additional information about these currency exchange losses. Additionally, we recognized higher losses of $0.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 related to fair value measurement of convertible debt securities in BioCision. Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to our consolidated financial statements included on the 2017 Annual Report in the Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.  



 Income Tax Provision   



 During the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we recorded an income tax provision of $2.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively. The tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily driven by the foreign income generated during the current quarter. This provision is partially offset by $0.3 million of tax benefits related to the reduction of reserves for unrecognized tax benefits and $0.7 million of tax benefits related to the re-measurement of net U.S. deferred tax liabilities at the reduced 21 percent federal income tax rate. The income tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2016 was primarily driven by foreign income generated during the quarter, partially offset by $0.7 million of tax benefits related to the reduction of reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. For additional discussion of the calculation of our income tax liabilities, please refer to Note 9, "Income Taxes", in the Notes to the unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q.   



 During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Reform”) was enacted in the U.S., making significant tax law changes affecting us. The SEC has issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (“SAB 118”), which has provided guidance for companies that have not completed the accounting for the income tax effects of Tax Reform. Under SAB 118, a company may report provisional amounts based on reasonable estimates where the accounting is incomplete. These amounts are subject to adjustments during a measurement period of up to one year beginning in the reporting period of the enactment date.  



 31  



 Table of Contents  



 Upon the enactment of Tax Reform, we are subject to a toll charge in the U.S. on our previously untaxed accumulated foreign earnings. The toll charge is treated as an inclusion of our accumulated foreign earnings in U.S. taxable income during the tax year ended September 30, 2018. Any taxes due associated with the toll charge will be payable over an eight year period. We have estimated that our accumulated foreign earnings are $120 million, which is a provisional amount subject to the measurement period described in Staff Accounting Bulletin 118. There are still incomplete components related to the accumulated foreign earnings calculations for older tax years that require additional time to complete the calculations. We also have a history of foreign mergers and acquisitions, and proper determination of the impact on the accumulated earnings is complex. We have not recorded any provision for currently estimated tax inclusion associated with the toll charge as sufficient previously un-benefited tax attributes, with valuation allowances, exist to offset the inclusion income or resulting tax.   



 As a result of Tax Reform, we calculated its U.S. tax provision for the three months ended December 31, 2017 using a blended U.S. statutory tax rate of 24.5%, which is a prorated allocation of the 35% rate which was in effect prior to tax reform through December 31, 2017 and the 21% rate which will be in effect for the remainder of the fiscal year. The Company recorded a discrete benefit of $0.7 million in the three months ended December 31, 2017 due to the impact of the U.S. rate change on its net U.S. deferred tax liabilities.  



 Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investments  



 During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we recorded income of $2.2 million from our equity method investments as compared to $1.9 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $0.2 million was primarily attributable to higher income generated from ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc., or UCI, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.  



 During the three months ended December 31, 2016, we incurred losses of $0.5 million from our investment in BioCision which was settled during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 as a part of the non-cash consideration for the acquisition of Cool Lab in November 2016. Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to our consolidated financial statements and “Equity in Earnings of Equity Method Investments” section of Item 7, “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.  



 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   



 A considerable portion of our revenue is dependent on the demand for semiconductor capital equipment which historically has experienced periodic downturns. We believe that we have adequate resources to fund our currently planned working capital and capital expenditure requirements, as well as to service debt and pay interest for the next twelve months. The cyclical nature of our served markets and uncertainty in the current global economic environment make it difficult for us to predict longer-term liquidity requirements with sufficient certainty. We may be unable to obtain any required additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on acceptable terms or otherwise, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressure or take advantage of acquisition opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  



 Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with substantial majority of those amounts located in the United States. As of December 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $202.3 million, of which $81.2 million was held outside of the United States. If these funds are needed for U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue withholding tax liabilities to repatriate these funds. As a result of recent changes in U.S. tax legislation, any repatriation in the future would not result in U.S. federal income tax. Our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the United States and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these funds for our U.S. operations. At December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, we had marketable securities of $29.5 million and $2.7 million, respectively, which were held in the United States. Our marketable securities are generally readily convertible to cash without an adverse impact. We believe that our current cash balance, marketable securities portfolio, access to the revolving line of credit, as well as to debt and capital markets along with cash flows from operations will satisfy working capital, financing activities, debt service and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months.  



 32  



 Table of Contents  



 On October 4, 2017, we entered into a $200.0 million Senior Secured Term Loan Facility, or the term loan, with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, or collectively, the lenders. The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing. We incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017, the outstanding term loan principal balance was $200.0 million, net of unamortized deferred financing costs of $2.7 million. The loan proceeds will be used for acquisitions and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $51.1 million available for borrowing under the line of credit. There were no amounts outstanding pursuant to the line of credit as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017. The amount of funds available for borrowing under the line of credit arrangement may fluctuate each period based on our borrowing base availability. Please refer to the “Capital Resources” section below for further information on the term loan and the line of credit.   



 Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity  



 Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017 consist of the following (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2016   



 Overview  



 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $231.9 million at December 31, 2017 as compared to $104.3 million at September 30, 2017. The increase in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $127.6 was primarily attributable to cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan and cash inflows of $3.2 million generated from our operating activities, partially offset by cash outflows related to acquisitions of $65.1 million, dividend payments of $7.1 million made to our shareholders during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, as well as capital expenditures of $2.7 million.   



 Operating Activities  



 Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as earnings, working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities and other operating charges impact reported cash flows.  



 Cash flows provided by operating activities were $3.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017, comprised primarily of earnings of $27.1 million, including net income of $16.5 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $10.6 million, partially offset by the uses of cash of $23.9 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in a use of cash consisted primarily of an increase in accounts receivable as a result of higher revenue and timing of billings, a decrease in accrued compensation and tax withholdings as a result of year-end cash incentive bonus payments and an increase in inventory levels to support the growth of our business. These uses of cash were partially offset by sources of cash related primarily to increases in accounts payable and prepaid expenses and other current assets.   



 Cash flows provided by operating activities were $18.7 million during the three months ended December 31, 2016 and comprised primarily of earnings of $18.9 million, including net income of $13.9 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $5.0 million, partially offset by the uses of cash of $0.2 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in a use of cash were comprised primarily of an increase in accounts receivable as a result of higher revenue and timing of billings and decreased accrued 



 33  



 Table of Contents  



compensation and tax withholdings as a result of year end incentive bonus payments. These uses of cash were partially offset by sources of cash related primarily to increases in accounts payable and deferred revenue due to the timing of customer billings.   



 Investing Activities  



 Cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions, capital expenditures and purchases of marketable securities, as well as cash proceeds generated from sales and maturities of marketable securities.  



 Cash used in investing activities was $94.3 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to $9.3 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Cash used in investing activities of $94.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 included cash payments of $65.1 million for the acquisitions, $26.9 million for the purchases of marketable securities and $2.7 million of capital expenditures.   



 Cash used in investing activities of $9.3 million during the three months ended December 31, 2016 included a cash payment of $5.3 million for the acquisitions and $3.8 million of capital expenditures.  



  Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving information technology infrastructure. Capital expenditures were $2.7 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $3.8 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease of $1.1 million was primarily attributable to lower investments made in our capital asset infrastructure during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.  



 Financing Activities  



 Cash provided by financing activities was $190.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to cash of $7.0 million used in financing activities during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Cash provided by financing activities was $190.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 and included cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan originated in October 2017, partially offset by cash dividend payments of $7.1 million.  



 Cash used in financing activities was $7.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 related to cash dividend payments.  



 Capital Resources  



 Senior Secured Term Loan Facility   



 On October 4, 2017, we entered into the $200.0 million term loan with the lenders. The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing. We incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017. The loan proceeds are used for acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Please refer to Note 8, "Debt" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" on this Form 10-Q for further information on the terms and conditions of the term loan.   



 At December 31, 2017, the outstanding term loan principal balance was $200.0 million, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs of $2.7 million. The term loan matures and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024. Installment principal payments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loan are payable on the last day of each quarter, with any remaining principal amount becoming due and payable on the maturity date. We will begin making principal payments under the term loan starting with the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, we may redeem the term loan at any time at our option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the term loan agreement. We would also be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amount then outstanding upon occurrence of certain events, as set forth in the term loan agreement. Commencing on December 31, 2018, we will be required to make principal payments 



 34  



 Table of Contents  



equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement. Please refer to Note 8, "Debt" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" on this Form 10-Q for further information on future minimum principal payment obligations under the term loan as of December 31, 2017.   



 Borrowings under the term loan bear variable interest rates, at our option, based on either LIBOR, the federal funds effective rate, as well as the prime rate plus an applicable percentage. As a result, we may experience exposure to interest rate risk due to the potential volatility associated with the variable interest rates on the term loan. If rates increase, we may be subject to higher costs of servicing the loan which could reduce our profitability and cash flows. The applicable interest rate was initially set at 4% upon the term loan issuance and established based on the six-month LIBOR rate applicable at that time plus a margin of 2.50%. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the weighted average stated interest rate on the term loan was 4% which will remain in effect until March 4, 2018. During the three months ended December 31, 2017, we incurred interest expense of $2.0 million on the term loan which will be paid in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. Our debt service requirements are expected to be funded through our existing sources of liquidity and operating cash flows.   



 The term loan agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default. As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.  



 Line of Credit Facility   



 We maintain a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the line of credit agreement. The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022. The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Please refer to Note 7, "Line of Credit" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" on this Form 10-Q for further information on the terms and conditions of the line of credit.   



 As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately $51.1 million available for borrowing under the line of credit. There were no amounts outstanding pursuant to the line of credit as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017. The amount of funds available for borrowing under the line of credit arrangement may fluctuate each period based on our borrowing base availability. The line of credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, a financial covenant, affirmative and negative covenants, as well as events of default. We were in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017. We believe we will be able to generate sufficient cash in the United States and foreign jurisdictions to fund future operating costs. We secured the revolving line of credit as an additional assurance for maintaining liquidity in the United States during potentially severe downturns of the cyclical semiconductor market, as well as for strategic investments and acquisitions.   



 Shelf Registration Statement  



 On July 27, 2016, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC to sell securities, including common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, depository shares, purchase contracts and purchase units in amounts to be determined at the time of an offering. Any such offering, if it does occur, may happen in one or more transactions. The specific terms of any securities to be sold will be described in supplemental filings with the SEC. This registration statement will expire on July 27, 2019.   



 Dividends  



 On January 31, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.10 per share of our common stock. The total dividend of approximately $7.0 million will be paid on March 23, 2018 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 2, 2018. Dividends are declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend on actual cash 



 35  



 Table of Contents  



flow from operations, our financial condition, debt service and capital requirements, as well as any other factors our Board of Directors may consider relevant. We intend to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; however, the amount and timing of these dividends may be impacted by the cyclical nature of certain markets we serve. We may reduce, delay or cancel a quarterly cash dividend based on the severity of a cyclical downturn.  



 Share Repurchase Program  



 On September 29, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $50 million worth of our common stock. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be based on market and business conditions, legal requirements and other factors and may be commenced or suspended at any time at our discretion. There were no shares repurchased under this program during the three months ended December 31, 2017.  



 Contractual Obligations and Requirements  



 Our inventory purchase commitments were $128.6 million and $122.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017. Except as disclosed below regarding letters of credit, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations set forth under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.  



 At December 31, 2017, we had approximately $3.5 million of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations. These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from our customers in the event that the product is not delivered or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms. These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if we fail to meet certain contractual requirements. None of these obligations were called during the three months ended December 31, 2017, and we currently do not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.  



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



 As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  



 36  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 Share Repurchase Program  



 On September 29, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $50 million worth of our common stock. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased are based on market and business conditions, legal requirements and other factors and may be commenced or suspended at any time at our discretion. There were no shares repurchased under this program during the three months ended December 31, 2017.  



 39  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 6. Exhibits  



 The following exhibits are included herein:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 40  



 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 41
