 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



 The Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or MD&A, describes principal factors affecting the results of our operations, financial condition and liquidity as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates that require significant judgment and thus have the most significant potential impact on our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our MD&A is organized as follows:  



   ·    Overview. This section provides a general description of our business and operating segments as well as a brief discussion and overall analysis of our business and financial performance, including key developments affecting the Company during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 



   ·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application. We believe these accounting policies and estimates are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. 



   ·    Results of Operations. This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended March 31, 2018. 



   ·    Liquidity and Capital Resources. This section provides an analysis of our liquidity and changes in cash flows as well as a discussion of available borrowings and contractual commitments. 



 You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical information, the MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read “Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements” below for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations.  



 In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group) for approximately $675.0 million in cash subject to customary adjustments. We originally acquired the cryogenics business in 2005 as part of the acquisition of Helix Technology Corporation. The closing of our sale of the cryogenics business is subject to various closing conditions and regulatory approvals. As part of this sale, we will transfer our intellectual property, or IP, for our cryogenics pump products, but not our IP related to our semiconductor automation or life sciences businesses. The semiconductor cryogenics business has been classified as discontinued operations and, unless otherwise noted, the description of our business and the results of operations in this MD&A relates solely to our continuing operations and does not include the operations of our semiconductor cryogenics business.   



 Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements  



 This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs or expectations, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “continue,” “likely” or similar statements or variations of such terms. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, margins, costs, earnings, profitability, product development, demand, acceptance and market share, competitiveness, market opportunities and performance, levels of research and development, the success of our marketing, sales and service efforts, outsourced activities, operating expenses, anticipated manufacturing, customer and technical requirements, the ongoing viability of the solutions that we offer and our customers’ success, tax expenses, our management’s plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus, the expected benefits and other statements relating to 



 42  



 Table of Contents  



our divestures and acquisitions, our adoption of the newly issued accounting guidance, the levels of customer spending, general economic conditions, the sufficiency of financial resources to support future operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions. Such statements are based on current expectations and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, our performance or our achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us. We do not undertake any obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. Precautionary statements made herein should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q. Any additional precautionary statements made in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements whenever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.  



 Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  



 OVERVIEW   



 We are a leading global provider of automation and cryogenic solutions for multiple markets. We primarily serve two distinct and unrelated markets: the semiconductor capital equipment market and the life sciences sample management market. We believe our leadership positions and our global support capability in each of these markets makes us a valued business partner to the largest semiconductor capital equipment and device makers, and pharmaceutical and life science research institutions in the world. Our offerings are also applied to other adjacent technology and industrial markets, and we provide customer support services globally.   



 In the semiconductor capital equipment market, equipment productivity and availability are critical factors for our customers, who typically operate equipment under demanding temperature and/or pressure environments. We are a leader in wafer automation and contamination controls solutions and services that are designed to improve throughput, yield, and cost of ownership of tools in semiconductor fabs. Our product offerings include vacuum and atmospheric robots, turnkey vacuum and atmospheric wafer handling systems, as well as wafer carrier cleaning and reticle storage systems. We also capture the complete life cycle of value through our global service network of expert application and field engineers who are located close to our customers. Our services include rapid refurbishment of robots to stringent specifications, upgrades to improve equipment productivity, and proactive monitoring and diagnostics for predictive risk management and improved up-time of the installed base. Although the demand for semiconductors and semiconductor manufacturing equipment is cyclical resulting in periodic expansions and contractions, we expect the semiconductor equipment market to remain one of our principal markets as we continue making investments to maintain and grow our semiconductor product and service offerings. A majority of our research and development spending advances our current product lines and drives innovations for new product offerings. We invest in research and development initiatives within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment to maintain continued leadership position in the markets we serve. Our Vacuum Automation platform, MagnaTran LEAP™, is for the rapidly emerging advanced technologies related to manufacturing 10 nanometer design rule semiconductor chips. MagnaTran LEAP™ is well positioned to deliver clean, accurate and fast wafer transport available for the fast-growing Deposition and Etch markets. In addition, we expect to continue to support and expand our technology and product offerings for the semiconductor market through acquisitions. In fiscal year 2018, we acquired Tec-Sem Group AG, or Tec-Sem, a Switzerland-based provider of semiconductor fabrication automation equipment with a focus on reticle management. The acquisition has enhanced our contamination controls solutions offerings.  



 In the life sciences sample-based services market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry. Our offerings include automated ultra-cold storage freezers, consumable sample storage containers, instruments which assist in the workflow of sample management, on-site and off-site full sample 



 43  



 Table of Contents  



management services, gene sequencing services and gene synthesis services. We expect the life sciences sample management market to remain one of our principal markets for our product and service offerings and provide favorable opportunities for the growth of our overall business. Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry. In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications. The acquisition has expanded our existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment. In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, or BioSpeciMan, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials. The acquisition has expanded customer relationships and geographic reach within our growing sample management storage services business. On November 15, 2018, we acquired GENEWIZ Group, or GENEWIZ, a leading global genomics service provider headquartered in South Plainfield, New Jersey. GENEWIZ is a global leader in genomics services that enable research scientists to advance their discoveries within the pharmaceutical, academic, biotechnology, agriculture and other markets. GENEWIZ provides gene sequencing and synthesis services for more than 4,000 institutional customers worldwide supported by their global network of laboratories spanning the United States, China, Japan, Germany and the United Kingdom. This transaction has added a new and innovative platform which we expect to leverage, along with our core capabilities, to add even more value to samples under our care. GENEWIZ is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment. Please refer to Note 5, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions. Since entering the life sciences industry, we have also strengthened and broadened our product portfolio and market reach by investing in internal product development and sales and marketing infrastructure. We expect to continue investing in research and development and making strategic acquisitions and other investments with the objective of expanding our offerings in the life sciences sample management market.   



 Business and Financial Performance  



 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018  



 Results of Operations - Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased to $198.4 million, or by 26%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin was 40.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 39.7% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $18.1 million. Operating expenses were $66.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $52.1 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $14.8 million. Operating income was $13.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to $10.3 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Loss from continuing operations was $2.8 million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, which includes a $9.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt. This compares to income from continuing operations of $62.5 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, which included the reversal of the valuation allowance reserve against U.S. deferred income tax assets of $58.0 million.   



 Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Six Months Ended March 31, 2018  



 Results of Operations - Revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2019 increased to $377.8 million, or by 26%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin was 40.4% for the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 38.9% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $36.0 million. Operating expenses were $133.6 million during the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $101.4 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $32.2 million. Operating income was $19.0 million during the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $15.2 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Income from continuing operations was $3.4 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $64.1 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The decrease of $60.7 million was primarily attributable to the reversal of the valuation allowance reserve against U.S. deferred income tax benefits of $58.0 million in the prior fiscal year, and a $9.1 million loss on extinguishment of debt in the 2019 period.   



 44  



 Table of Contents  



 March 31, 2019 Compared to September 30, 2018  



 Cash Flows and Liquidity - Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $140.1 million at March 31, 2019 as compared to $251.2 million at September 30, 2018. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $111.2 million was primarily attributable to net cash outflows of $442.7 million to acquire GENEWIZ, cash dividends paid of $14.4 million and capital expenditures of $9.7 million, partially offset by net cash inflows primarily from proceeds received from the incremental amendment and syndication of our existing term loan of $334.1 million, proceeds from the sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million and net cash inflows from operating activities of $22.2 million. Cash inflows from operating activities of $22.2 million was comprised of $48.0 million of net earnings, including net income of $17.8 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $30.2 million, partially offset by uses of cash of $25.8 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions.   



 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  



 Our unaudited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP. The preparation of the interim consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, including those related to accounts receivable, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets other than goodwill, long-lived assets, derivative financial instruments, deferred income taxes, warranty obligations, revenue recognized using the percentage of completion method, pension obligations and stock-based compensation expense. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate current and anticipated worldwide economic conditions, both in general and specifically in relation to the semiconductor and life science industries, that serve as a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily determinable based on information from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions that could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  



 For further information with regard to our significant accounting policies and estimates, please refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q and in the Notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.  



 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements applicable to our unaudited consolidated financial statements, please refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.   



 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



 Three and Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three and Six Months Ended March 31, 2018  



 Revenue   



 We reported revenue of $198.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $157.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $41.4 million, or 26%. We reported revenue of $377.8 million for the six months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $299.6 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $78.2 million, or 26%. We reported revenue growth in both the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the Brooks Life Sciences segment for both periods. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted new accounting guidance for recognizing revenue on a modified retrospective basis. The difference in reported 



 45  



 Table of Contents  



revenue due to the adoption of the standard was a net decrease of $1.2 million and $1.6 million during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively.   



 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported revenue of $112.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $108.4 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $4.5 million, or 4%. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported revenue of $225.6 million compared to $203.6 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $22.0 million, or 11%. The increase in both periods was primarily driven by increases in sales of contamination control solutions products and automation systems, partially offset by a decline in sales of robotic automation products and automation services. Growth in contamination controls solutions for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 was $14.2 million and $28.4 million respectively, which is inclusive of revenue from the acquisition of Tec Sem of $5.7 million and $15.1 million, respectively. The semiconductor markets are cyclical and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Demand for our Brooks Semiconductor Solution Group products is affected by these cycles. The difference in reported revenue due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net increase of $0.2 million and $0.7 million for the three and six months ended March, 31, 2019, respectively.  



 Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported revenue of $85.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $48.5 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $37.0 million, or 76%, was composed of $33.2 million from acquisitions, and $3.8 million from internal growth, principally from consumables and instruments, automated systems and sample storage services. For the six months ended March 31, 2019, our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported revenue of $152.2 million, compared to $96.0 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $56.2 million, or 59%, was composed of $49.8 million from acquisitions, and $6.4 million from internal growth, principally in consumables and instruments, automated systems, and sample management services. The difference in reported revenue due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net decrease of $1.4 million and $2.2 million during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively.   



 Revenue generated outside the United States was $115.7 million, or 58% of total revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $96.5 million, or 62% of total revenue, for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Revenue generated outside the United States was $227.0 million, or 60% of total revenue, for the six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $187.4 million, or 63% of total revenue, for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. We had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue for each of the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.   



 Gross Margin  



 We reported gross margins of 40.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to 39.7% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin increased in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment by 0.7 percentage points and in the Brooks Life Sciences segment by 1.4 percentage points in the 2019 period over the 2018 period. We reported gross margins of 40.4% for the six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to 38.9% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Gross margin increased in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment by 0.5 percentage points and in the Brooks Life Sciences segment by 3.7 percentage points in the 2019 period over the 2018 period. Cost of revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 included $2.8 million and $4.8 million, respectively, of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $1.0 million and $1.9 million, respectively, during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. Cost of revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 also included $0.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively, of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting, as compared to $0.0 million and $1.2 million, respectively, during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. Excluding the purchasing accounting impact related to inventory step-up and the amortization of completed technology, gross margins expanded 1.6 percentage points and 1.7 percentage points, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The difference in reported gross margin due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net decrease in gross profit of $0.7 million and $0.8 million during three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively.   



 46  



 Table of Contents  



 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported gross margins of 40.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 40.1% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported gross margins of 40.7% for the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 40.3% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase in both periods was driven by lower production costs attributable to product and customer mix and production efficiencies. Cost of revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 included $0.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively, of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively, incurred during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The results for the six months ended March 31, 2019 included $0.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting as compared to no such charges during both the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. Excluding the purchase accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 0.9 percentage points and 0.8 percentage points, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The difference in reported gross margin due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net increase in gross profit of $0.2 million and $0.7 million during three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively.  



 Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported gross margins of 40.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 39.0% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported gross margins of 39.9% for the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to 36.1% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. The increase during both periods was primarily due to a higher margin revenue mix from GENEWIZ, volume leverage of fixed costs, and higher margins from our consumables and instruments product lines. These factors were partially offset by lower margins on automated store projects due to cost overruns. Cost of revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 included $1.9 million and $2.9 million, respectively, of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively, incurred during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The results for the six months ended March 31, 2018 included $1.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting as compared to no such charges during both the corresponding periods of the current fiscal year. Excluding the purchase accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 2.7 percentage points and 3.6 percentage points, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The difference in reported gross margin due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net decrease in gross profit of $0.9 million and $1.2 million during three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively.  



 Research and Development   



 Research and development expenses were $14.1 million and $27.2 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $11.3 million and $22.8 million, respectively, during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The increase of $2.8 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the corresponding period of fiscal year 2018 reflects higher expense of $1.8 million within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and $1.0 million within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment. The increase of $4.4 million during the first half of fiscal year 2019 reflects higher expense of $2.5 million within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and $1.9 million within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment. Higher expenses in both periods were primarily attributable to new acquisitions and higher employee related costs.   



 Selling, General and Administrative   



 Selling, general and administrative expenses were $52.4 million and $105.9 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $40.7 million and $78.6 million, respectively, during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The increase of 11.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year was primarily attributable to the selling, general and administrative infrastructure at GENEWIZ, and amortization expense related to intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisitions of GENEWIZ and Tec Sem. The prior year corresponding period also included a $1.1 million credit, related to an insurance claim. These impacts were partially offset by lower expense accruals in 2019 related to variable compensation and lower merger and acquisition related expenses. In addition to the factors mentioned above, additional merger-related costs drove the increase of $27.3 million during the six months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.  



 47  



 Table of Contents  



 Amortization expense related primarily to customer relationships was $6.6 million and $12.4 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $4.6 million and $9.2 million, respectively, during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. Merger-related costs were $0.0 million and $6.4 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $1.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively, during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The increases in amortization expense and merger costs during 2019 are due to the acquisition of GENEWIZ.  



 Non-Operating Income (Expenses)  



 Interest income - During the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded interest income of $0.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively, as compared to $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year.   



 Interest expense - During the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded interest expense of $8.0 million and $13.3 million, respectively, as compared to $2.2 million and $4.4 million during corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The increase in interest expense is due to interest on the $350.0 million incremental term loan secured in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 used to pay a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of GENEWIZ.  



 Loss on extinguishment of debt - During the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $9.1 million in connection with the syndication of the $350.0 million term loan secured during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The syndication to a new group of lenders during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 met the criteria of a debt extinguishment and therefore the amortization of the deferred financing costs associated with the origination of the loan was accelerated and recorded as a loss on extinguishment of debt on our statement of operations.  



 Other expenses, net - During the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, we recorded other expenses, net of $0.8 million and $0.8 million, respectively, as compared to $0.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, of the corresponding periods of the prior fiscal year. The $1.6 million decrease during the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to lower foreign currency exchange losses.  



 Income Tax Provision  



 We recorded an income tax benefit of $1.0 million and $6.9 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019. The tax benefit for three months was driven by U.S. losses during the period and includes $0.4 million of stock compensation windfalls. These benefits were slightly offset by the tax provision on foreign earnings during the period and a discrete expense related to interest accruing on uncertain tax positions. The tax benefit for the six months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily driven by discrete benefits related to stock compensation windfalls of $4.1 million for tax deductions that exceeded the associated compensation expense, $1.4 million of tax benefits related to the remeasurement of net U.S. deferred tax assets due to state tax rate changes, and a $1.1 million transition tax reduction. These discrete benefits were slightly increased by the tax benefit recorded on losses during the period.   



 We recorded an income tax benefit of $54.5 million and $55.2 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2018. The tax benefit recorded during each period was primarily driven by a discrete benefit due to the reversal of a valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during the three months ended March 31, 2018 in the amount of $58.0 million. The tax benefit for the six months ended March 31, 2018 included $0.7 million of tax benefits related to the re-measurement of net U.S. deferred tax liabilities to account for the reduced 21 percent statutory federal income tax rate. This benefit for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 was partially offset by the tax provisions related to foreign income.  



 During 2018, the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations on the federal toll charge and various other aspects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. We finalized our analysis of the toll charge and related liabilities, including 



 48  



 Table of Contents  



uncertain tax positions, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 pursuant to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118. As a result of the new guidance issued and additional work to complete the calculation of our federal toll charge, we reduced our provisional accrual for federal, state and foreign taxes by net $1.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018. In addition, we also assessed our uncertain tax positions related to these taxes and accrued income and determined no tax reserves were required.  



 We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assess the need for a valuation allowance on an annual and quarterly basis. We evaluate the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis while performing this analysis. We evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018. The remaining portion of our U.S. valuation allowance is related to the realizability of certain state tax credits and net operating loss carry-forwards. We continue to maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in certain foreign tax-paying components as of March 31, 2019.   



 We maintain liabilities for uncertain tax positions. These liabilities involve judgment and estimation and are monitored based on the best information available. We recognize interest related to unrecognized benefits as a component of the income tax benefit. We recognized interest as tax expense related to our unrecognized tax benefits of $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019. During the six months ended March 31, 2018 the statute of limitations lapsed on an uncertain tax positions in a foreign jurisdiction which resulted in a $0.3 million reduction in the gross unrecognized tax benefits that impacted the effective tax rate.  



 We are subject to U.S. federal income tax and state, local and international income taxes in various jurisdictions. The amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file tax returns. In the normal course of business, we are subject to income tax audits in various global jurisdictions in which we operate. The years subject to examination vary for the U.S. and international jurisdictions, with the earliest tax year being 2011. Based on the outcome of these examinations or the expiration of statutes of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the related unrecognized tax benefits could change from those recorded in our unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets. We currently anticipate that it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $0.1 million within the next twelve months.  



 Discontinued Operations  



 We generated revenue and net income from discontinued operations of $35.7 million and $6.3 million, respectively for the three months ended March 31, 2019 related to our semiconductor cryogenics business as compared to $50.3 million and $4.5 million, respectively, for the corresponding period of fiscal 2018. We generated revenue and net income from discontinued operations of $75.0 million and $14.4 million, respectively for the six months ended March 31, 2019 related to our semiconductor cryogenics business as compared to $97.0 million and $19.4 million, respectively, for the corresponding period of fiscal 2018. The net income includes income from the Ulvac Cryogenics, Inc. joint venture during these periods. The income from discontinued operations only includes direct operating expenses incurred that (1) are clearly identifiable as costs being disposed of upon completion of the sale and (2) will not be continued by the Company on an ongoing basis. Indirect expenses which supported the Cryogenics business, and which will remain as part of the continuing operations, are not reflected in income from discontinued operations.  



 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   



 A considerable portion of our revenue is dependent on the demand for semiconductor capital equipment which historically has experienced periodic downturns. We believe that we have adequate resources to satisfy our working capital, financing activities, debt service and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. The cyclical nature of our served markets and uncertainty in the current global economic environment make it difficult for us to predict longer-term liquidity requirements with sufficient certainty. We may be unable to obtain any required additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on acceptable terms or otherwise, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressure or take advantage of acquisition opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  



 49  



 Table of Contents  



 The discussion of our cash flows and liquidity that follows does not include the impact of the disposition of our cryogenics business and is stated on a total company consolidated basis.  



 Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity  



 Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018 consist of the following (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Our cash is held in numerous locations throughout the world. As of March 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $137.2 million, of which $111.1 million was held outside of the United States. If these funds are needed for the U.S. operations, we would need to repatriate these funds. As a result of recent changes in U.S. tax legislation, any repatriation in the future would likely not result in further U.S. federal income tax. Our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these funds for our U.S. operations. As of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we had marketable securities of $2.8 million and $53.5 million, respectively. Our marketable securities are generally readily convertible to cash without an adverse impact.  



 Six Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Six Months Ended March 31, 2018   



 Overview  



 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $140.1 million at March 31, 2019 as compared to $251.2 million at September 30, 2018. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $111.2 million was primarily attributable to net cash outflows of $442.7 million to acquire GENEWIZ, cash dividends paid of $14.4 million and capital expenditures of $9.7 million, partially offset by net cash inflows primarily from proceeds received from the incremental amendment and syndication of our existing term loan of $334.1 million, proceeds from the sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million and net cash inflows from operating activities of $22.2 million during the six months ended March 31, 2019.   



 Operating Activities  



 Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as earnings, working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities and other operating charges impact reported cash flows.  



 Cash provided by operating activities was $22.2 million during the six months ended March 31, 2019, comprised primarily of earnings of $48.0 million, including net income of $17.8 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $30.2 million. Partially offsetting these items were the uses of cash of $25.8 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in a use of cash consisted primarily of an increase in accounts receivable as a result of higher revenue, an increase in inventory levels to support the growth of our business and a decrease in accrued compensation and tax withholdings as a result of year-end cash incentive bonus payments. These uses of cash were partially offset by sources of cash related primarily to increases in accounts payable. Cash provided by operating activities was $23.4 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018 comprised primarily of earnings of $57.6 million, including net income of $83.5 million and the unfavorable impact of non-cash related charges of $25.9 million, partially offset by the use of $34.2 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities.   



 50  



 Table of Contents  



 Investing Activities  



 Cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions, capital expenditures and purchases of marketable securities as well as cash proceeds generated from sales and maturities of marketable securities. Cash used in investing activities was $402.2 million during the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $119.9 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Cash used in investing activities during the six months ended March 31, 2019 included cash outflow of $442.7 million for the acquisition of GENEWIZ, $9.7 million of capital expenditures, and $1.3 million for the purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by cash inflows from the proceeds of sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million. Cash used in investing activities during the six months ended March 31, 2018 included cash payments of $65.0 million for acquisitions, $49.6 million for the purchases of marketable securities and $5.7 million of capital expenditures.  



 Financing Activities  



 Cash provided by financing activities was $320.0 million during the six months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $184.0 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year. Cash provided by financing activities during the six months ended March 31, 2019 included net cash inflows of $334.1 million primarily related to net proceeds from the incremental term loan secured in November 2018 and the syndication of the incremental term loan in February 2019, partially offset by cash dividend payments of $14.4 million. Cash provided by financing activities during the first half of fiscal year 2018 included cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan originated in October 2017, partially offset by cash dividend payments of $14.1 million and principal payments of $0.5 million.   



 China Facility  



 In April 2019, the Company committed to construct a facility in Suzhou China, to consolidate the Suzhou operations of its GENEWIZ business and provide an infrastructure to support future growth. The facility will be constructed in two phases. The company expects to incur $50.0 to $55.0 million of capital expenditures over the next five years, of which up to $10.0 million is expected to be incurred during 2019.  



 Capital Resources  



 Senior Secured Term Loan Facility   



 On October 4, 2017, we entered into a $200.0 million term loan with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing. On November 15, 2018, we entered into an incremental amendment, or the Amendment to the existing credit agreement. Under the Amendment, we obtained an incremental term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million. The proceeds of the incremental loan were used to pay a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of GENEWIZ acquisition. The term loan was issued at $340.5 million, or 97.3% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $9.5 million, or 2.7%, which represented financing cost of the loan. Except as provided in the Amendment, the incremental loan is subject to the same terms and conditions as set forth in the existing credit agreement. The loan principal amount may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus any additional amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.   



 On February 15, 2019, we syndicated the $350.0 million term loan to a group of new lenders which met the criteria of a debt extinguishment. We wrote off the carrying value of the incremental term loan of $340.1 million as of February 15, 2019 and recorded the syndicated incremental term loan at its present value for $349.1 million and a loss on debt extinguishment for $9.1 million. The syndicated loan was issued at $345.2 million, or 98.9% of its part value resulting in a discount of $4.0 million which represented financing costs which are presented as a reduction of the term loan principal balance in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets and will be accreted over the life of the loan. Except as provided in the Amendment for increase of interest rates, the new loan is subject to the same terms and conditions as set forth in the incremental term loan.  



 51  



 Table of Contents  



 The term loans mature and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024. Installment principal payments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loan are payable on the last day of each quarter, with any remaining principal amount becoming due and payable on the maturity date. During the six months ended March 31, 2019, we made principal payments of $3.2 million related to the term loans. Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, we may redeem the term loans at any time at our option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the original term loan agreement and the Amendment. We would also be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amounts then outstanding upon the occurrence of certain events, as set forth in the original term loan agreement and the Amendment.   



 In connection with the GENEWIZ acquisition, we assumed three five-year term loans and two one-year term loans. At March 31, 2019, we had an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $3.9 million for these term loans.   



 At March 31, 2019, the aggregate outstanding principal balance of the term loans was $543.5 million, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs of $6.1 million. Borrowings under the term loan bear variable interest rates. As a result, we may experience exposure to interest rate risk due to the potential volatility associated with the variable interest rates on the term loan. If rates increase, we may be subject to higher costs of servicing the loan which could reduce our profitability and cash flows. During the six months ended March 31, 2019, the weighted average stated interest rate on the term loan was 5.2%. During the six months ended March 31, 2019, we incurred aggregate interest expense of $12.3 million on the term loans. Our debt service requirements are expected to be funded through our existing sources of liquidity and operating cash flows.   



 The term loan agreement and the Amendment contain certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default. As of March 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.  



 Line of Credit  



 Facility   



 We maintain a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the credit agreement. The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022. The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.   



 As of March 31, 2019, we had approximately $51.3 million available for borrowing under the line of credit. There were no amounts outstanding pursuant to the line of credit as of March 31, 2019. The amount of funds available for borrowing under the line of credit arrangement may fluctuate each period based on our borrowing base availability. The line of credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, a financial covenant, affirmative and negative covenants, as well as events of default. We were in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of March 31, 2019. Although we believe we will be able to generate sufficient cash in the United States and foreign jurisdictions to fund future operating costs, we secured the revolving line of credit as an additional assurance for maintaining liquidity in the United States during potentially severe downturns of the cyclical semiconductor market, and for strategic investments or acquisitions.   



 Shelf Registration Statement  



 On July 27, 2016, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC to sell securities, including common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, depositary shares, purchase contracts and purchase units in amounts to be determined at the time of an offering. Any such offering, if it does occur, may happen in one or more transactions. The specific terms of any securities to be sold will be described in supplemental filings with the SEC. This registration statement will expire on July 27, 2019.   



 52  



 Table of Contents  



 Dividends  



 On April 26, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on June 28, 2019 to common stockholders of record as of June 7, 2019. Dividends are declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend on actual cash flow from operations, our financial condition, debt service and capital requirements, and any other factors our Board of Directors may consider relevant. We intend to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; however, the amount and timing of these dividends may be impacted by the cyclical nature of certain markets we serve. We may reduce, delay or cancel a quarterly cash dividend based on the severity of a cyclical downturn.  



 Share Repurchase Program  



 On September 29, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $50.0 million worth of our common stock. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be based on market and business conditions, legal requirements and other factors and repurchases may be commenced or suspended at any time at our discretion. There were no shares repurchased under this program during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and there have been no shares repurchased under this program since its inception.  



 Contractual Obligations and Requirements  



 Our non-cancellable inventory purchase commitments were $88.3 million at March 31, 2019.   



 At March 31, 2019, we had approximately $1.3 million of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations. These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from our customers in the event that the product is not delivered or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms. These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if we fail to meet certain contractual requirements. None of these obligations were called during the six months ended March 31, 2019, and we currently do not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.  



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



 As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  



 53  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 Share Repurchase Program  



 On September 29, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $50.0 million worth of our common stock. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased are based on market and business conditions, legal requirements and other factors and repurchases may be commenced or suspended at any time at our discretion. There were no shares repurchased under this program during the six months ended March 31, 2019.   



 56  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 6. Exhibits  



 The following exhibits are included herein:   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 57  



 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 58
