Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto, which appear elsewhere herein. Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking” statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” in the section below entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019. 



References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. 



Overview 



We are a holding company owning and seeking to own subsidiaries engaged in a variety of business operations. As of September 30, 2019, we had two existing operating segments: (i) merchant cash advance (“MCA”) operations, conducted through our subsidiary LM Capital Solutions, LLC (d/b/a “LuxeMark Capital”) (“LMCS”), and (ii) real estate operations, conducted through our subsidiary Recur Holdings LLC (“Recur”) and its subsidiaries. 



The Company began developing its real estate operations during the second half of fiscal year 2018. Since commencing our real estate operations, we have made several commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, access to a consistent volume of attractive real estate transactions, and management’s experience in the real estate industry, we created Recur, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Recur currently provides commercial loans to local, regional, and national builders, developers, and commercial landowners and is also acquiring, owning, and managing a portfolio of real property for development. Recur does not provide consumer mortgages. 



In February 2019, through our newly formed subsidiary, LMCS, we acquired the operating assets of LuxeMark Capital, LLC (the “LuxeMark Acquisition”). Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Company holds an 80% interest in LMCS, with the remaining 20% held by LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“Old LuxeMark”). Through LMCS, doing business as “LuxeMark Capital,” we manage a connected network of MCA originators and syndicate participants who provide those originators with capital by purchasing participation interests or co-funding MCA transactions. In addition, we provide loans to MCA originators, the proceeds of which are used by the MCA originators to fund MCAs themselves. LMCS’ daily operations are led by the three principals of Old LuxeMark. CCUR provides accounting and legal support to LMCS. 



In addition to our real estate and MCA operating segments, we actively evaluate acquisitions of additional businesses or operating assets, either as part of an expansion of our current operating segments or establishment of a new operating segment, in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. We may also seek additional capital and financing to support the purchase of additional businesses and/or to provide additional working capital to further develop our operating segments. We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire, and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all our stockholders. 



 20  



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are disclosed under the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019. 



Results of Operations 



We recognize revenue in accordance with the appropriate accounting guidance as described in our critical accounting policies. See the section titled “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019. MCA revenue includes income from the discount at which we provide advances on future merchant receivables, as well as fees earned for sourcing both syndication capital and merchant leads for MCA funders. We generate revenue from interest on loans by entering into commercial loan agreements to fund third party funders in the MCA industry and real estate industry. 



Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of commissions, travel, employee salaries, benefits, and consulting fees. 



General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, overhead, management travel, administrative personnel, rent, information systems, insurance, accounting, legal services, board of director fees and expenses, and other professional services. 



Other interest income is earned on cash overnight sweep accounts and money market deposits, as well as investments in debt securities. Interest income also includes accretion of discounts for which we purchased debt securities whereby such discount is amortized over the term of the debt security to its commitment value that will be due on the maturity date, as well as early repayment. Additionally, we earn payment-in-kind (“ PIK”) interest from one of our debt securities whereby interest is paid in the form of an increase in the commitment value due from the debt security issuer on the maturity date. 



Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 in Comparison to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 



Consolidated Results. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we generated $1.7 million of total revenue, compared to $0.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2018, driven largely by the growth in our participation in the MCA industry. Our net income for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 increased to $3.5 million, compared to a loss of $3.0 thousand in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019. This increase was attributable largely to an increase in our income before income tax driven by our MCA operations and our investments in certain debt and equity securities. 



MCA Operations Segment Results. In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through third-party originators. We generated $1.7 million of revenue from MCA operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0 in the during the three months ended September 30, 2018. Of that revenue, $0.8 million of revenue came from MCAs and $0.6 million of revenue was generated from syndication fee revenue from sourcing syndication capital and merchant leads for the MCA industry. 



Real Estate Operations Revenues. We generated $0.1 million of revenue from real estate operations during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018. 



 21  



Interest on Mortgage and Commercial Loans. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we had outstanding mortgage loans to three borrowers secured by commercial real estate. Additionally, as part of our MCA business, we originated $2.75 million of term loans to an MCA originator so that it may fund additional cash advances. Loans from our mortgage lending portfolio, and loans from our MCA business collectively, earned an annualized rate of 14.0% during the three months ended September 30, 2019. Segment information for interest income on loans is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Sales and Marketing Expenses. During the third quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we began incurring sales and marketing expenses attributable to new business development resources that are focused on augmenting our current businesses and identifying potential new businesses. We incurred $0.1 million of these business development costs during the three months ended September 30, 2019, which are reported as part of our corporate operating expenses. Additionally, the principals of Old LuxeMark, who now lead the LMCS daily operations following closing of the LuxeMark Acquisition, are predominantly focused on generating incremental syndication fees and other MCA income for our MCA operations segment. As a result, our MCA operations segment incurred $0.2 million of sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2019. 



General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses were $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019, a $0.2 million, or 23%, increase from the three months ended September 30, 2018. Salaries attributable to our MCA operations accounted for $0.1 million of the increase, as we did not have MCA operations in the prior year period. The remaining $0.1 million increase was due to corporate salaries from additional headcount and financial performance bonuses accrued during the three months ended September 30, 2019. 



Change in Fair Value of Contingent Consideration.  During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded $10 thousand of incremental expenses related to our estimated contingent consideration payments to Old LuxeMark. The increase in estimated contingent consideration payments associated with the LuxeMark Acquisition resulted from updated estimates regarding the financial performance of LMCS. The new estimates are expected to impact our projected income for our MCA business favorably, and consequently increased our estimate of contingent consideration payable. 



Amortization of Purchased Intangibles. Our amortization of purchased intangibles includes amortization over the respective useful lives of the trade name, non-competition agreements, and investor/funder relationships attributable to the LuxeMark Acquisition. Our intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable. We acquired these intangibles as part of the LuxeMark Acquisition on February 13, 2019 and no impairments of intangible assets were identified as of September 30, 2019. 



Provision for Credit Losses on Advances. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, $0.2 million was provided for losses, based on the dollar amount of new MCAs that we entered into and mix of funders who we funded through. We did not record a provision for credit losses during the three months ended September 30, 2018 because we did not fund any MCAs during that period. 



 22  



Other Interest Income. Other interest income includes interest from investments that are not a part of our real estate operations or MCA operations that we may originate or otherwise acquire. Other interest income specifically includes interest earned on cash and money market balances and investments in debt securities. The components of our interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 are as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Other interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 increased by $1.3 million, or 142.8%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018, due to higher yields on incremental investments in debt securities since September 30, 2019 and accretion of any discounts on these securities. 



Dividend Income. Dividend income decreased by $43 thousand during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to the same period of the prior year, due to our sale of some of our dividend yielding equity securities since September 30, 2018. 



Realized Gain on Investments, net. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we sold investments in certain equity securities for which we recognized $1.1 million of net realized gains, as compared to $0.2 million of realized gains on the sale of certain equity and debt securities during the same period in the prior year. 



Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Equity Securities, Net. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we reported unrealized gain on equity securities, net, of $0.5 million, compared to a loss of $0.5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018. Our unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities each period are a function of changes in the fair value of the equity securities that we hold as of the current reporting period balance sheet date relative to the preceding balance sheet date. 



Income Tax Provision (Benefit). We reported $0.2 million of income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to income earned in states where we do not have NOLs available to offset taxable income. Our available federal NOLs offset any taxable income for our fiscal year 2019, resulting in no net federal income tax expense for the current fiscal year. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our future liquidity will be affected by, among other things: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Uses and Sources of Cash 



Cash Flows from Operating Activities 



We generated $0.5 million and used $0.1 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Operating cash generated during the three months ended September 30, 2019 was primarily attributable to positive net income, adjusted for non-cash items, partially offset by timing of collection of interest income. Operating cash usage during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.5 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and PIK interest. 



 23  



Cash Flows from Investing Activities 



During the three months ended September 30, 2019 we generated $0.1 million of cash, net, from investing activities. Our net cash inflows were primarily driven by collecting more merchant payments than we redeployed to fund advances to merchants, resulting in $1.6 million of net cash inflows from MCAs during the period. Additionally, we generated net cash from debt and equity securities as we liquidated $0.8 million more in debt and equity securities than we invested during the three months ended September 30, 2019. Partially offsetting the net cash inflows from MCAs, debt and equity securities, we funded $2.0 million more in mortgage and commercial loans than we collected during the period, primarily attributable to new loans that we made to funders in the MCA industry. Remaining investing cash outflows during the three months ended September 30, 2019 resulted from our purchase of land parcels for development and resale. 



During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we originated $1.8 million of short-term mortgage loans through Recur, of which $1.4 million was on deposit with an escrow agent at the end of the prior fiscal year. Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. Our remaining investing activities consisted of $1.6 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continued to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire. 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities 



On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to one million shares of the Company’s common stock. Purchases are made through private transactions or open market purchases, which may be made pursuant to trading plans subject to the restrictions and protections of Rule 10b5-1 and/or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). We did not repurchase any shares during the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 23,008 shares of the Company’s common stock totaling $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018. All repurchased stock was retired. We may purchase up to 381,119 additional shares pursuant to our previously announced repurchase plan. 



Liquidity 



We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $49.4 million at September 30, 2019, compared to working capital of $48.8 million at June 30, 2019. At September 30, 2019, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 



As of September 30, 2019, less than 0.1% of our cash was in foreign accounts, and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities, and available-for-sale investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report. 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2019. 



Recent Accounting Guidance 



See “Note 2. Recent Accounting Guidance,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting standards, including the respective expected dates of adoption and the expected effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 



 24  



Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 



Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws. Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, the ability of the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets and the Company’s ability to consummate transactions with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our real estate and merchant cash advance operations, the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends. These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information. All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected. The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more additional businesses, our ability to utilize our net operating losses to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Service; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. 



Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise, except as may be required by federal securities law. 



Other important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019 and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report or elsewhere herein. 



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



None. 



 Item 6.Exhibits – 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 26  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* Filed herewith 



** Furnished herewith 



 27  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 28
