 Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which appear elsewhere herein. Except for the historical financial information, many of the matters discussed in this Item 2 may be considered “forward-looking” statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section below entitled “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” elsewhere herein and in other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2018. 



References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise. CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018. 



References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 



Overview 



On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima. Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction. Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements). Unless otherwise noted, discussion of our business and results of operations in this Form 10-Q refers to our continuing operations. 



The Investment Committee, a special sub-committee of the Board, was established in December 2017 upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders. Such alternatives include, but are not limited to, evaluating opportunities to acquire all or a controlling interest in one or more operating businesses or assets intended to provide attractive returns for our stockholders and that are intended to result in appreciation in value, a more liquid trading market for our stock, and enhance our ability to utilize our existing U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location. During fiscal year 2019, the Board dissolved the Investment Committee and established an Asset Management Committee as a standing committee of the Board. The Asset Management Committee, among other things, continues the work of the former Investment Committee by providing oversight of the Company’s acquisition process and also manages the Company’s ongoing operations and assets (including continued expansion and development of its real estate operations) and those of any subsequently acquired businesses. 



We are actively pursuing business opportunities, including the acquisition of new businesses or assets, as well as developing and managing our current business and assets. We continually identify and evaluate a wide range of opportunities in an effort to reinvest the proceeds of our calendar year 2017 business dispositions and maximize use of other assets such as our NOLs. We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders. 



As part of this effort, our senior management spends a significant portion of its time evaluating potential acquisition and strategic opportunities. We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries. We work with several financial advisors and consultants on a non-exclusive basis and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries. We have not focused our acquisition and strategic efforts on any specific industry, focusing instead on identifying well-priced businesses and assets that we believe have significant growth potential. 



 20  



Our acquisition process is focused on identifying fairly- to under-valued businesses that have growth potential. Due to current market conditions, we have faced significant competition from strategic and, in particular, financial buyers which in many instances have raised seller valuation expectations above what we consider to be attractive levels for us and our stockholders. We continue to believe that fairly- and under-valued opportunities exist and are attainable and do not intend to pursue what we consider to be overvalued businesses and assets that we believe may not deliver the levels of returns that we target. 



Recent Events 



Merchant Cash Advance (MCA) Funding 



In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with a leading MCA originator to participate in funding MCAs. We made an initial advance of $5.0 million to the originator (the “Initial MCA Advance”), who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication. MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract. Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH in order to pay down the merchant’s advance. These are not consumer loan contracts, nor are they installment loan contracts to businesses for business use only. In addition, there is no monthly minimum payment, nor is there a specific repayment schedule. As of December 31, 2018, our revenue and receivables from MCAs were derived from a single MCA originator with which we funded, in syndication, more than 100 advances to merchants. 



Non-Binding Letter of Intent to Acquire an 80% Membership interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC 



On October 2, 2018, we announced that the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to acquire an eighty percent (80%) interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”), a privately held firm focused on the rapidly growing MCA sector of the finance industry that provides financing to small and medium-sized businesses. LuxeMark facilitates the provision of syndication capital or leverage to select funding companies within the MCA sector and provides related administrative servicing functions. 



Pursuant to the LOI, the Company will acquire the interest in LuxeMark for a combination of up to $6 million in cash and equity, each payable over four years and subject to the achievement of prescribed financial performance milestones by LuxeMark. Additionally, the Company intends to fund up to $10 million in MCA capital, including through the Initial MCA Advance, which LuxeMark facilitated and for which LuxeMark provides certain servicing. The acquisition and deployment of any remaining MCA capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction. 



We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on funds the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator or lender. 



Continued Pursuit of Acquisition Opportunities 



In addition to its pursuit of acquisition opportunities, the Asset Management Committee is tasked with creating operating activities and businesses that will enhance stockholder value. To that end, in fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other activities, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property. Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. At this time the Company does not expect a significant increase in expenses for its real estate operations as its management team has prior experience in this sector and believes it can manage the business without adding additional staffing resources. As these operations grow, we plan to leverage our contacts and potential strategic partnerships to help source continued opportunities for this business. As a part of its real estate operations, the Company plans to continue to assess opportunities to create value through real property ownership, financing and/or development, among other strategies. The Company intends to continue to build on its current operations through its newly formed subsidiary while it continues to evaluate acquisition and strategic opportunities, both inside and outside the real estate sector. 



 21  



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are disclosed under the section “Application of Critical Accounting Policies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, and as follows: 



Allowance for MCA credit losses 



The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by a peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 



The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates. We regularly update our reserve estimates as new facts become known and events occur that may affect the settlement or recovery of losses. For the six months ended December 31, 2018, we have experienced no losses on advances; however, new facts and circumstances may adversely affect our MCA portfolio resulting in increased delinquencies and losses and could require additional provisions for credit losses, which could impact future periods. Based on industry peer group historical performance, we recorded a $495 loss reserve during the current period. 



Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 



Interest Income on Commercial Loans. We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we earned $0.2 million of interest income on seven mortgage and other commercial loans with a weighted average annualized yield of 11.0%. 



MCA Income. In December 31, 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through a third-party originator that is a leader in the MCA sector. We generated $0.2 million of income from MCAs during the period and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2019. 



General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses were $0.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, a $3.1 million, or 79.5%, decrease from the prior year period. This decrease was primarily due to: 



 ·a $1.8 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  



 ·a $0.7 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business; and  



 ·a $0.6 million decrease in severance related to our former CEO that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.  



 22  



At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our operations as our management team believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 



Provision for Credit Losses. We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019. The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 



Other Interest Income. Other interest income includes interest from investments that are not a part of our newly formed subsidiary Recur Holdings LLC, which houses our real estate operations, or any other non-commercial loans that we may originate or otherwise acquire. Other interest income specifically includes interest earned on cash and money market balances, repurchase agreements, investments in debt securities, and income generated by other advances. Other interest income increased by $0.8 million in the current year period compared to the prior year period. The components of our interest income for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows (amounts in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest income increased in the current year period relative to the prior year period due to: 



 ·the increase in cash resulting from the sale of our Content Delivery business in December 2017;  



 ·increasing interest rates on cash equivalent balances;  



 ·investment in higher yielding debt securities in the current year period; and  



 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities.  



Dividend income. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended December 31, 2018. 



Unrealized loss on equity securities, net. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities. Upon our adoption of ASU No. 2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net unrealized gain (loss) on investments. During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $1.5 million unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments. 



Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended December 31, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, as further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 



Results of Operations for the Six Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to the Six Months Ended December 31, 2017 



Interest Income on Commercial Loans. We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019. Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations. During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we earned $0.3 million of interest income on eight mortgage and other commercial loans with an average aggregate carrying value of $5.4 million during the period and a weighted average annualized yield of 10.9%. 



 23  



MCA Income. In December 2018, we began participating in the MCA industry by indirectly advancing funds to merchants through a third-party originator that is a leader in the MCA sector. We generated $0.2 million of income from MCAs during the period and expect to fund additional MCAs in the remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2019. 



General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses were $1.6 million for the six months ended December 31, 2018, a $3.7 million, or 69.4%, decrease from the six months ended December 31, 2017. This decrease was primarily due to: 



 ·a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, primarily resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted stock awards in the prior year due to the change of control triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  



 ·a $0.8 million decrease in bonuses due primarily to the non-recurring bonuses paid in the prior year period for the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business, and secondarily for annual incentive plan bonuses for operating results for the first half of the prior fiscal year;  



 ·a $0.6 million decrease in severance primarily related to our former CEO that was terminated in conjunction with the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017;  



 ·a $0.3 million decrease in personnel costs, as we have reduced the number of employees from continuing operations subsequent to the sale of the Content Delivery business; and  



 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees. In the first quarter of our prior fiscal year we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the current year period. Additionally, in the first quarter of the prior fiscal year we reduced certain recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members.  



At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our operations as our management team believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources. 



Provision for Credit Losses. We established a provision for credit losses specifically for the MCAs that we began participating in during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019. The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of purchase through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection of principal is unlikely. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 



Other Interest Income. Other interest income includes interest from investments that are not a part of our newly formed subsidiary Recur Holdings LLC, which houses our real estate operations, or any other non-commercial loans that we may originate our otherwise acquire. Other interest income specifically includes interest earned on cash and money market balances, repurchase agreements, investments in debt securities, and income generated by non-merchant cash advances. Other interest income increased by $1.6 million in the first six months of fiscal year 2019 compared to the same period in fiscal year 2018. The components of our interest income for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows (amounts in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest income increased in the six months ended December 31, 2018 relative to the six months ended December 31, 2017 due to: 



 ·the increase in cash resulting from the sale of our Content Delivery business in December 2017;  



 ·increasing interest rates on cash equivalents;  



 ·investment in higher yielding debt securities in the current year period; and  



 ·accretion of discounts on purchased debt securities.  



 24  



Dividend income. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the six months ended December 31, 2018. 



Net realized gain on investments. During the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019 we sold our investment position in certain debt and equity securities for which we recognized a $0.2 million realized gain for the six months ended December 31, 2018. 



Unrealized loss on equity securities, net. In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities. Upon our adoption of ASU No. 2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments. During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded a $2.0 million unrealized loss on investments within our consolidated statement of operations as a fair value adjustment to our equity securities investments. 



Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017. Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the six months ended December 31, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our future liquidity will be affected by, among other things: 



 ·our future access to capital;  



 ·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives and development of new operating assets;  



 ·our ability to collect on our commercial loans and advances receivable;  



 ·the number of countries in which we operate, which may require maintenance of minimum cash levels in each country and, in certain cases, may restrict the repatriation of cash, by requiring us to maintain levels of capital;  



 ·our ongoing operating expenses; and  



 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.  



Uses and Sources of Cash 



Cash Flows from Operating Activities 



We used $0.1 million and $3.6 million of cash for operating activities during the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Operating cash usage during the six months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.9 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and payment-in-kind interest. Operating cash flows during the six months ending December 31, 2017 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous period’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business in fiscal year 2017, inventory purchases and accrued compensation. 



Cash Flows from Investing Activities 



During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we funded $4.5 million of commercial loans, most of which were mortgage loans through our real estate operating subsidiary, Recur Holdings LLC. Our mortgage loans typically require interest only payments until maturity or payoff. We received $0.7 million of cash from principal payments during the six months ended December 31, 2018, as one mortgage loan was paid off during the period. We received approximately $1.2 million of cash for principal payment on a commercial revolving credit facility from the borrower who regularly draws from and pays principal on the revolving credit facility to support its working capital needs. 



 25  



In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with a leading MCA originator to participate in funding its MCA originations. We made an initial advance of $5 million to the originator, who in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication. As advances have been collected from the merchants, we have used the collected funds to fund additional MCAs. Through December 31, 2018, we have funded $5.9 million in MCAs and collected $0.9 million of merchant receivables as repayment for these advances. Additionally, we provided a $2 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee. 



Our remaining investing activities consisted of $8.0 million in purchases and $6.2 million in maturities or sales of debt and equity securities for the purpose of funding our operating expenses as we continue to evolve our real estate operating business and actively search for additional operating businesses to acquire. 



In the prior six-month fiscal year period, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business and other related assets for a purchase price of $29 million (subject to an adjustment for net working capital). The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary. Gross proceeds from the sale were paid to us as follows: (1) a $29.02 million cash payment on December 31, 2017 (including a preliminary adjustment for estimated working capital of $1.47 million), less $0.1 million of cash that transferred to Vecima along with our Japanese subsidiary, and (2) $1.45 million placed in escrow as security for the Company’s indemnification obligations to Vecima that may have arisen through December 31, 2018 (less any portion used to make indemnification payments to Vecima). The full $1.45 million of funds placed in escrow were transferred to us in January 2019. 



We invested $0.3 million in property and equipment during the six months ended December 31, 2017. These capital additions were primarily related to: (i) development and test equipment for the Content Delivery business development groups and (ii) demonstration systems used by our sales and marketing group. We also generated $8.9 million of cash from maturities of commercial paper investments and invested $10.0 million in additional commercial paper during the six months ended December 31, 2017. 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities 



On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to one million shares of the Company’s common stock. Purchases are made through private transactions or open market purchases, which may be made pursuant to trading plans subject to the restrictions and protections of Rule 10b5-1 and/or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). We repurchased 156,423 shares of the Company’s common stock totaling $0.6 million during the six months ended December 31, 2018. All repurchased stock was retired, and 103,117 shares may still be purchased under the announced plan as of December 31, 2018. 



In the prior fiscal year six-month period, we paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, and $2.3 million in aggregate. On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board considers potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets. 



Liquidity 



We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $50.7 million at December 31, 2018, compared to working capital of $55.3 million at June 30, 2018. At December 31, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures. 



As of December 31, 2018, less than 1.0% of our cash was in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months. Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance date of this report. 



 26  



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2018. 



Recent Accounting Guidance 



See Note 2, “Recent Accounting Guidance,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a full description of recent accounting standards including the respective expected dates of adoption and the expected effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. 



Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 



Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. When used or incorporated by reference in this report, the words “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “intends”, and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Statements regarding future events and developments, our future performance, payment of dividends, ability to utilize our net deferred tax assets and availability of earnings and profits with respect to dividend income, as well as our expectations, beliefs, plans, estimates or projections relating to the future and current assessments of business opportunities, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of these laws. Examples of our forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to: the ability of the Board of Directors and Asset Management Committee to identify suitable business opportunities and acquisition targets and the Company’s ability to consummate a transaction with such acquisition targets; our ability to successfully develop our real estate operations; expectations to fund additional MCAs; the impact of any strategic initiatives we may undertake; the impact of the current reestablishment of and potential for future release of our tax valuation allowances on future income tax provisions and income taxes paid; expected level of capital additions; our expected cash position; the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuation in currency exchange rates; our sufficiency of cash; and the impact of litigation and the payment of any declared dividends. These statements are based on beliefs and assumptions of our management, which are based on currently available information. All forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events to differ materially from those projected. The risks and uncertainties which could affect our financial condition or results of operations include, without limitation: uncertainty caused by delisting of the Company’s stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market and transfer of our stock listing to the OTCQB Venture Market; the process of evaluating strategic alternatives; the Company’s ability to compete with experienced investors in the acquisition of one or more businesses; the Company’s ability to consummate proposed acquisition transactions; the Company’s ability to utilize its NOLs to offset cash taxes, in general, and in the event of an ownership change as defined by the Internal Revenue Code; changes in and related uncertainties caused by changes in applicable tax laws, the current macroeconomic environment generally and with respect to acquisitions and the financing thereof; continuing unevenness of the global economic recovery; the availability of debt or equity financing to support any liquidity needs; global terrorism; and earthquakes, tsunamis, floods and other natural disasters. 



Our forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and speak only as of the date of such statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of future events, new information or otherwise, except as may be required by federal securities laws. 



Other important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ from any forward-looking statements made in this report are discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report or elsewhere herein. 



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to one million shares of the Company’s common stock. Purchases are made through private transactions or open market purchases, which may be made pursuant to trading plans subject to the restrictions and protections of Rule 10b5-1 and/or Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. The following table sets forth information about the shares of the Company’s common stock we repurchased during the three months ended December 31, 2018, as well as remaining shares available for repurchase under the Board’s authorization: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)On March 5, 2018, the Company announced its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to one million shares of the Company’s common stock. Repurchases may be made at the discretion of management through open market or privately negotiated transactions or any combination of the same. Open market purchases are made pursuant to trading plans subject to the restrictions and protections of Rule 10b5-1 and/or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Act. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.  



 30  



 Item 6.Exhibits  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 31.1*   Certification of Principal Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 



 31.2*   Certification of Principal Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 



 32.1**   Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 



 32.2**   Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  



 31  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* Filed herewith 



** Furnished herewith. 



 32  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 33
