Item 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 



Not applicable. 



ITEM 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 



An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of September 30, 2019 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer. Based upon this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President of Finance concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level as of September 30, 2019 due to the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as described below. 



Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.  



To address the material weakness, management is working with our third-party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls. The remediation plan will include an assessment of personnel levels and responsibilities, additional training of financial reporting personnel and ability to handle new requirements and projects on a timely basis with respect to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and public company reporting requirements and timelines. The material weakness will be fully remediated when, in the opinion of management, the control processes have been operating for a sufficient period of time to provide reasonable assurance as to their effectiveness. The remediation and ultimate resolution of the material weakness will be reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 



Except as noted above, there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2019, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 



22 



Table of Contents  



PART II - OTHER INFORMATION 



Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 



On February 15, 2019, the Company filed a petition for inter partes review of Shure’s U.S. Patent No. 9,565,493 (“’493 Patent”), arguing that all claims of the ’493 Patent should be cancelled in light of several prior art references, including ClearOne’s U.S. Patent No. 9,813,806 (the “’806 Patent”). Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019. 



On July 18, 2019, Shure, Inc. filed a lawsuit against the Company in the U.S. Court for the District of Delaware. The lawsuit alleges ClearOne’s BMA CT product, launched in February of 2019, infringes Shure’s '493 Patent. Furthermore, Shure alleged in the lawsuit that ClearOne engaged in unfair competition, tortious interference, deceptive trade practices and false advertising. Shure is seeking monetary damages and multiple injunctive reliefs. The Company believes that the lawsuit is a baseless retaliatory action by Shure and intends to vigorously defend it. 



On August 5, 2019, the Honorable Edmond E. Chang of the Northern District of Illinois issued a preliminary injunction order in the ongoing litigation in that district between the Company and Shure Incorporated, Case No. 11-cv-3087. In that litigation, ClearOne asserts that Shure’s MXA910 Ceiling Array Microphone, which competes with ClearOne’s beamforming microphone array products, infringes patents related to those products. The August 5 order held that ClearOne had "met its burden of demonstrating entitlement to the extraordinary relief of a preliminary injunction" on U.S. Patent No. 9,813,806. The Court held that "Shure is likely infringing the ’806 Patent and has not raised a substantial question of the patent’s validity.” The injunction order prohibits Shure from “manufacturing, marketing, and selling the MXA910 to be used in its drop-ceiling mounting configuration, including marketing and selling the MXA910 in a way that encourages or allows integrators to install it in a drop-ceiling mounting configuration." 



Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 



There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. 



Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



(a) None. 



Item 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 



Not applicable. 



Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 



Not applicable. 



Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION 



Not applicable. 



23 



Table of Contents  



Item 6. EXHIBITS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



24 



Table of Contents  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



25
