Item 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). All statements in this report, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements for purposes of these provisions, including any projections of earnings, revenues or other financial items, any statements of the plans and objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products or services, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available tob us as of such date. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “may,” “will,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative thereof or other comparable terminology. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements contained herein are based upon reasonable assumptions at the time made, there can be no assurance that any such expectations or any forward-looking statement will prove to be correct. Our actual results will vary, and may vary materially, from those projected or assumed in the forward-looking statements. Future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which we cannot predict with accuracy and some of which we might not anticipate, including, without limitation, product recalls and product liability claims; infringement of our technology or assertion that our technology infringes the rights of other parties; termination of supplier relationships, or failure of suppliers to perform; inability to successfully manage growth; delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or the failure to maintain such approvals; concentration of our revenue among a few customers, products or procedures; development of new products and technology that could render our products obsolete; market acceptance of new products; introduction of products in a timely fashion; price and product competition, availability of labor and materials, cost increases, and fluctuations in and obsolescence of inventory; volatility of the market price of our common stock; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in key personnel; work stoppage or transportation risks; integration of business acquisitions; and other factors referred to in our reports filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Additional factors that may have a direct bearing on our operating results are discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



BUSINESS OVERVIEW 



ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications. The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer a high level of functionality, reliability and scalability. 



We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel. We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking. We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development. 



During the first quarter of 2019, we began shipping our patented Beamforming Microphone Array Ceiling Tile (BMA CT) to our partners. All of the innovations developed for the BMA CT make the integrator’s job easier and more profitable. The BMA CT dramatically transforms how integrators can approach system design for ceiling tile installations, allowing for multi-array setups that can utilize a single, low-channel count DSP mixer while maintaining ClearOne’s high level of performance and reliability. Further simplification comes from the array’s built-in power amplifier, which allows each array to drive two 10-Watt, 8-Ohm loudspeakers. The BMA CT also features ClearOne’s proprietary adaptive steering technology (think of it as smart switching). This provides impeccable room coverage while eliminating the need to adjust individual beams. Integrators can daisy chain ceiling tiles via P-Link (ClearOne’s proprietary peripheral link) for larger conference setups – for simpler wiring and longer distances compared to networked home-run connections. P-Link also allows integrators to daisy chain additional peripherals such as wireless mics, USB Expanders, and GPIO Expanders. The system supports all of this functionality with zero consumption of analog I/O and signal processing in the DSP mixer leaving those resources available for other needs. 



We also introduced COLLABORATE® Space to our growing family of collaboration solutions. It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise. Designed as a persistent, user-friendly collaboration suite, COLLABORATE Space contains many powerful UCC capabilities, as well as the seamless ability to make calls outside the network. With COLLABORATE Space, users can work together one-on-one, or in groups of hundreds, with integrated file sharing, searchable archives, and user presence information. They can connect with colleagues and contacts, via audio and video, with the most intuitive collaboration tools. Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes. 



15 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



During the first quarter, we continued our serious litigation efforts to stop infringement of our strategic patents. We also continue our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path. 



Overall revenue declined in the first quarter of 2019 when compared to the first quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video. We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.  



Our gross profit margin decreased to 43% during the first quarter of 2019 from 56% for the first quarter of 2018. Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory. 



Net loss increased from $1.8 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $2.3 million in the first quarter of 2019. The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced gross profit and reduced tax benefit partially offset by reduction in operating expenses.  



Industry conditions 



We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players. The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals. 



Economic conditions, challenges and risks 



The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Our competitors vary within each product category. Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues. Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products. Despite our strong leadership position in the installed professional audio conferencing market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market due to higher margins. 



Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth. We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds. We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future. We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications. 



We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future. Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in U.S. dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk. However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive. 



A detailed discussion of our results of operations follows below. 



Results of Operations for the first quarter of 2019 



The following table sets forth certain items from our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations (dollars in thousands) for the three months ended March 31, 2019 (“2019-Q1”) and 2018 (“2018-Q1”), respectively, together with the percentage of total revenue which each such item represents: 



16 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue 



Our revenue decreased to $6.3 million in 2019 compared to $7.3 million in 2018. The highest decline was seen in audio conferencing category with 11% decline followed by microphones with 9% decline. Revenue from video products grew by 13% on the back of growth in sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services. The decline in audio conferencing category was due to decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing. The decline in microphones category was due to decline in beamforming microphones. The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphones categories.  



The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix declined marginally from 50% in 2018-Q1 to 43% in 2019-Q1. The share of microphones slightly improved from 32% to 33%. Share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 18% to 24%. 



During 2019-Q1 revenue declined across all major markets except Middle East, India and Central Europe. The decline was more pronounced in the Canada, Australia, Japan and Northern Europe. Asia Pacific including Middle East decreased by 9%, Europe and Africa declined by 14% and Americas declined by 13%. 



We believe, although there can be no assurance, that we will return to growth path when our strategic initiatives namely product innovation, cost reduction and defense of our intellectual property succeed. 



Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 



Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses. 



Our gross profit for 2019-Q1 was approximately $2.7 million or 43% compared to approximately $4.1 million, or 56%, for 2018-Q1. Gross margin for 2019-Q1 declined mainly due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory due to continued declined in inventory purchasing activity. 



Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional installed audio conferencing products. We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs. 



17 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Operating Expenses 



Operating expenses include sales and marketing (“S&M”) expenses, research and product development (“R&D”) expenses and general and administrative (“G&A”) expenses. Total operating expenses were $5.1 million for 2019-Q1 compared to $6.5 million for 2018-Q1. The following contains a more detailed discussion of expenses related to sales and marketing, research and product development, general and administrative, and other items. 



Sales and Marketing - S&M expenses include selling, customer service, and marketing expenses such as employee-related costs, allocations of overhead expenses, trade shows, and other advertising and selling expenses. 



S&M expenses for 2019-Q1 decreased to $2.0 million from $2.9 million for 2018-Q1. The decrease was mainly due to decreases in employee related costs, marketing expenses related to tradeshows, inventory costs for demonstration purposes and commission payments. 



Research and Product Development - R&D expenses include research and development, product line management, engineering services, and test and application expenses, including employee related costs, outside services, expensed materials, depreciation, and an allocation of overhead expenses. 



R&D expenses were approximately $1.6 million for 2019-Q1, as compared to $2.1 million for 2018-Q1. The decrease was primarily due to reductions in employee related costs and allocations of overhead expenses. 



General and Administrative - G&A expenses include employee-related costs, professional service fees, allocations of overhead expenses, litigation costs, and corporate administrative costs, including costs related to finance and human resources. 



G&A expenses remained almost the same at $1.6 million in 2019-Q1 and 2018-Q1. 



Other income (expense), net 



Other income (expense), net, includes interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency changes. 



Other income marginally increased in 2019-Q1 compared to higher interest income.  



Provision for income taxes 



During 2019-Q1, we did not recognize any benefit from the losses incurred due to setting up of full valuation allowance. During 2018-Q1 we accrued income taxes at the forecasted effective tax benefit rate of 27.0% 



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 



As of March 31, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $4.3 million compared to $11.2 million as of December 31, 2018. Our working capital was $22.9 million and $28.3 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 



Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $1.3 million in 2019-Q1, an increase of cash used of approximately $1.0 million from $0.3 million of cash used in operating activities in 2018-Q1. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.2 million and an increase in net loss by $0.5 million, partially offset by increase in non-cash charges of $0.7 million. 



Net cash used by investing activities was $5.6 million for 2019-Q1 compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities of $1.0 million during the 2018-Q1, an increase in cash used of $6.6 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of marketable securities of approximately $6.8 million. 



Capitalization of patent defense costs. We capitalize external legal costs incurred in the defense of our patents when we believe that a significant, discernible increase in value will result from the defense and a successful outcome of the legal action is probable. When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years. During 2019-Q1 we spent $1.2 million of legal costs related to the defense of our patents and capitalized the entire amount. 



18 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Net cash provided by financing activities was $9 thousand during 2019-Q1. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $0.7 million during 2018-Q1, which consisted of cash outflows of $0.1 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and $0.6 million for dividend payments. 



We are currently pursuing all available legal remedies to defend our strategic patents from infringement. We have already spent about $9.7 million from 2016 through March 31, 2019 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense. We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing the share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures. In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels. We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future. We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans. We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs. In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth. 



At March 31, 2019, we had open purchase orders related to our electronics manufacturing service providers of approximately $2.1 million, primarily related to inventory purchases. 



At March 31, 2019, we had inventory totaling $20.8 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.5 million. This compares to total inventories of $22.2 million and non-current inventory of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2018. 



OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 



We have no off-balance-sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial conditions, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources, results of operations or liquidity. 



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 



Our discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial position are based upon our unaudited consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. We believe certain of our accounting policies are critical to understanding our financial position and results of operations. Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1. “Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, there have been no changes to the critical accounting policies as explained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 



For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1: “Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. 



