PART II - OTHER INFORMATION 



Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 



There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 



Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 



There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. 



Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



(a) None. 



(b) Not applicable. 



(c) On March 9, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $10 million of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program. In connection with the repurchase authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases. 



On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10 million of common stock over the next twelve months. In connection with the repurchase extension authorization, the Company was authorized to complete the repurchase through open market transactions or through an accelerated share repurchase program, in each case to be executed at management’s discretion based on business and market conditions, stock price, trading restrictions, acquisition activity and other factors. The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again. 



19 



Item 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 



Not applicable. 



Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 



Not applicable. 



Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION 



Not applicable. 



Item 6. EXHIBITS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



20 



