Item 4. Controls and Procedures. 



(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report. 



It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. 



(b) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Except as set forth below, during the three months ended March 30, 2019, we did not make any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 



During the three months ended March 30, 2019, we implemented a new lease accounting system and related internal controls in response to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842),” effective December 30, 2018. These implementations resulted in a material change in a component of our internal control over financial reporting. 



37 



Table of Contents  



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 



Not applicable. 



Item 5. Other Information.  



None. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



50 



Table of Contents  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



51
