Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere herein.



This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements can be identified generally by the use of forward-looking terminology and words such as "expects," "anticipates," "estimates," "believes," "predicts," "intends," "plans," "potential," "may," "continue," "should," "will" and words of comparable meaning. Without limiting the generality of the preceding statement, all statements in this report relating to estimated and projected earnings, margins, costs, expenditures, cash flows, growth rates and future financial results are forward-looking statements. We caution investors that any such forward-looking statements are only predictions and are not guarantees of future performance. Certain risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Such factors may include:



•overall business and economic conditions affecting the healthcare industry, including the effects of the federal healthcare reform legislation enacted in 2010, and implementing regulations, on the businesses of our hospital customers;



•government regulation of our products and services and the healthcare and health insurance industries, including changes in healthcare policy affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and qualifying technological standards;



•changes in customer purchasing priorities, capital expenditures and demand for information technology systems;



•saturation of our target market and hospital consolidations;



•general economic conditions, including changes in the financial and credit markets that may affect the availability and cost of credit to us or our customers;



•our substantial indebtedness, and our ability to incur additional indebtedness in the future;



•our potential inability to generate sufficient cash in order to meet our debt service obligations;



•restrictions on our current and future operations because of the terms of our senior secured credit facilities;



•market risks related to interest rate changes;



•competition with companies that have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have;



•failure to develop new technology and products in response to market demands;



•failure of our products to function properly resulting in claims for medical and other losses;



•breaches of security and viruses in our systems resulting in customer claims against us and harm to our reputation;



•failure to maintain customer satisfaction through new product releases free of undetected errors or problems;



•failure to convince customers to migrate to current or future releases of our products;



•interruptions in our power supply and/or telecommunications capabilities, including those caused by natural disaster;



•our ability to attract and retain qualified client service and support personnel;



•failure to properly manage growth in new markets we may enter;



•misappropriation of our intellectual property rights and potential intellectual property claims and litigation against us;



•changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America;



•significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired; and



•fluctuations in quarterly financial performance due to, among other factors, timing of customer installations.



Additional information concerning these and other factors that could cause differences between forward-looking statements and future actual results is discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.



22



Background



CPSI is a leading provider of healthcare solutions and services for community hospitals and other healthcare systems and post-acute care facilities. Founded in 1979, CPSI offers our products and services through three companies - Evident, LLC ("Evident"), TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT"). These combined companies are focused on improving the health of the communities we serve, connecting communities for a better patient care experience, and improving the financial operations of our clients. The individual contributions of each of these companies towards this combined focus are as follows:



•Evident, which makes up our Acute Care EHR reporting segment, provides comprehensive acute care electronic health record ("EHR") solutions, Thrive and Centriq, and related services for community hospitals and their physician clinics.



•AHT, which makes up our Post-acute Care EHR reporting segment, provides a comprehensive post-acute care EHR solution and related services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities.



•TruBridge, our third reporting segment, focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.



Our companies currently support approximately 1,000 acute care facilities and approximately 3,300 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market. Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with fewer than 200 acute care beds, with hospitals having fewer than 100 beds comprising approximately 98% of our acute care EHR client base. 



See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our three reportable segments.



Management Overview



 Through much of our history, we have been able to achieve meaningful long-term revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market. Prospectively, our ability to continue to realize long-term revenue growth is largely dependent on our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented between our operating segments, Acute Care EHR, Post-acute Care EHR, and TruBridge. As a result, retention of existing EHR customers is a key component of our long-term growth strategy by protecting this base of potential cross-sell customers, while at the same time serving as a leading indicator of our market position and stability of revenues and cash flows.



 Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace. As a result, we are placing ever-increasing value in further developing our already significant recurring revenue base. As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and include a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.



 Our business model is designed such that, as revenue growth materializes, earnings and profitability growth are naturally bolstered through the increased margin realization afforded us by operating leverage. Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on a continuing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services, all of which contribute to recurring revenue growth. The provision of these recurring revenue services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins and operating margins. 



We also look to increase margins through cost containment measures where appropriate as we continue to leverage opportunities for greater operating efficiencies of the combined entity. For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group. Using best practices of the combined companies' implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute care installations by approximately 25%. Also, during the third quarter of 2018, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company. 



Turbulence in the U.S. and worldwide economies and financial markets impacts almost all industries. While the healthcare industry is not immune to economic cycles, we believe it is more significantly affected by U.S. regulatory and



23



 national health projects than by the economic cycles of our economy. Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs. Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology. Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment. Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs. Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.



In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments. There is increasing pressure on healthcare organizations to reduce costs and increase quality while replacing fee-for-service in part by enrolling in an advanced payment model. This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.



We have historically made financing arrangements available to clients on a case-by-case basis depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes. Our system sales revenues are now weighted more heavily in the form of financed sales, compared to upfront and subscription payment modules. These financing arrangements include short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies. For those clients not seeking a financing arrangement, the payment schedule of the typical contract is structured to provide for a scheduling deposit due at contract signing, with the remainder of the contracted fees due at various stages of the installation process (delivery of hardware, installation of software and commencement of training, and satisfactory completion of a monthly accounting cycle or end-of-month operation by each respective application, as applicable). 



During 2018, total financing receivables increased by $7.8 million which had a significant impact on operating cash flow. This increase in financing arrangements was primarily due to two reasons. First, meaningful use stage three ("MU3") installations are primarily financed through short-term payment plans and demand for such installation has increased since late 2017. Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options. We expect positive cash flows from financing receivables during 2019 as cash receipts from MU3 installations in the previous year are received.



We have also historically made our software applications available to clients through "Software as a Service" or "SaaS" configurations, including our Cloud Electronic Health Record ("Cloud EHR") offering. These offerings are attractive to some clients because this configuration allows them to obtain access to advanced software products without a significant initial capital outlay. We have experienced an increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. Unlike our perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement. As a result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.



On May 3, 2019, the Company closed its acquisition of iNetXperts, Corp., a Maryland corporation doing business as Get Real Health (“Get Real Health”), pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 23, 2019. Based in Rockville, Maryland, Get Real Health delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers. Through this acquisition, the Company will strengthen its position in community healthcare by offering three new comprehensive patient engagement and empowerment solutions that are offered by Get Real Health. Although the acquisition is expected to be accretive to Adjusted EBITDA for fiscal year 2019, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. In addition, we expect to incur acquisition and integration costs in the second quarter of 2019, which may have a negative effect on Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter. 



Results of Operations



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we generated revenues of $69.1 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $70.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of 2% that is primarily attributed to new EHR installations that were smaller in size compared to the first quarter of 2018 partially offset by continued TruBridge client growth. We view sales of TruBridge solutions within our existing EHR client base as our leading performance



24



 indicator. Our net income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $0.5 million to $3.4 million from the three months ended March 31, 2018 as a result of lower Acute Care EHR system sales and support revenue leading to a gross margin of 54%, a 1% decrease from the first three months of 2018. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $4.8 million to $7.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to more advantageous changes in working capital, most notably as it relates to accounts receivable and financing receivables. 



The following table sets forth certain items included in our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, expressed as a percentage of our total revenues for these periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 



Revenues. Total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $1.7 million, or 2%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. 



25



 System sales and support revenues decreased by $2.5 million, or 5%, compared to the first quarter 2018. System sales and support revenues were comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Non-recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $1.4 million, or 11%, mostly due to a $2.0 million decrease in Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenues. New implementations of our Acute Care EHR solutions decreased both in number and average contract size compared to the first quarter 2018, resulting in a $1.5 million decrease in related revenues. Our Acute Care EHR solutions were installed in five new hospital clients during the first quarter 2019 compared to six during the first quarter 2018, with each period containing one installation under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contractual term. Add-on sales for our Acute Care EHR segment remained relatively flat, as the $2.0 million decrease in MU3-related revenues was offset by a $2.1 million increase in other add-on revenues. Non-recurring Post-acute Care EHR revenues increased by $0.6 million, or 79%, in the first quarter 2019 as a result of increased bookings due to our ongoing product releases and aggressive efforts to make technological improvements to the AHT product line.



 Recurring system sales and support revenues decreased by $1.1 million, or 3%, compared to the first quarter 2018. Acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased by $0.7 million, or 3%, as attrition primarily from the Centriq customer base outweighed new Thrive customer growth and additional support fees for MU3-related add-on sales. Post-acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased by $0.4 million, or 7%, due to attrition attributed to an aggressive competitive environment as we make technological improvements to the AHT product line. 



 TruBridge revenues increased 3%, or $0.8 million, compared to the first quarter 2018. Our hospital clients operate in an environment typified by rising costs and increased complexity and are increasingly seeking to alleviate themselves of the ever-increasing administrative burden of operating their own business office functions. Most notably, our insurance services line, which includes our TruBridge services, increased by $0.8 million, or 12%, due to new RCM customer growth. We have also expanded our customer base for our accounts receivable management services resulting in an increase of $0.3 million, or 4%, and our information technology management services grew by 10%, or $0.3 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in our medical coding services of $0.8 million, or 26%, as a few key customers have decreased their demand for these services. 



Costs of Sales. Total costs of sales increased by 1%, or $0.2 million, compared to the first quarter 2018. As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales increased to 46% in the first quarter 2019, compared to 45% in the first quarter 2018. 



Costs of Acute Care EHR system sales and support increased by $0.3 million, or 2%, compared to the first quarter 2018 primarily due to a $1.0 million increase in hardware expense resulting from changes in the sales mix. This increase was partially offset by a 3%, or $0.3 million, decrease in payroll cost as headcount has been reduced and a $0.2 million decrease in third party software costs. The dual effect of decreased revenues and the increased costs noted above resulted in the gross margin on Acute Care EHR system sales and support decreasing to 54% in the first quarter 2019, compared to 58% in the first quarter 2018. 



Costs of Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support decreased by $0.4 million, or 23%, compared to the first quarter 2018, primarily due to reduced payroll costs of $0.1 million, or 15%, as we have been able to continue to operate more efficiently to meet current demand. Additional decreases in software, hardware, travel, and other costs combined for an



26



 additional $0.3 million decrease. The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 78% in the first quarter 2019, compared to 70% in the first quarter 2018.



Our costs associated with TruBridge sales and support increased 2%, or $0.3 million, with the largest contributing factor being an increase in payroll and related costs of 4%, or $0.4 million, as a result of adding more employees during the trailing twelve months in order to support and develop our growing customer base. The gross margin on these services was 47% in the first quarter 2019 and 2018.



Product Development. Product development expenses consist primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) and infrastructure costs incurred, but not capitalized, for new product development and product enhancements. Product development costs increased 5%, or $0.5 million, compared to the first quarter 2018, primarily as a result of an increase in headcount. 



Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses decreased 3%, or $0.2 million, compared to the first quarter 2018, primarily due to decreased payroll costs of 7%, or $0.2 million, based on decreased headcount. 



General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses decreased 4%, or $0.5 million, as the $2.5 million in cost savings achieved through recent changes in the health benefits offered to our employees through our self-insured health plans were partially offset by increases in other expense items. Most notably, we saw a $1.1 million increase in non-recurring and transaction-related costs resulting from recent acquisition activity and other strategic initiatives. Bad debt expense increased $0.6 million, as a few of our hospital clients have not been or may not be able to fulfill their financial obligations. Lastly, stock compensation expense increased $0.3 million as a result of additional grants of stock made during the trailing twelve months.



Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles. Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets decreased $0.1 million compared to the first quarter 2018 due to the retirement of Rycan related trademarks during 2018. All software and services previously provided under the Rycan name now are marketed under TruBridge trademarks.



 Total Operating Expenses. As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses increased to 45% in the first quarter 2019, compared to 44% in the first quarter 2018. 



Total Other Income (Expense). Total other income (expense) decreased from expense of $1.8 million during the first quarter 2018 to expense of $1.6 million during the first quarter 2019, as we have reduced our interest-bearing long term debt, coupled with an increase in interest income due to the expansion of long-term payment plans offered to our clients.



Income Before Taxes. As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes decreased by 23%, or $1.4 million, compared to the first quarter 2018.



Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased to 23.3% from 32.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Our implementation of the Internal Revenue Service’s “Guidance for Allowance of the Credit for Increasing Research Activities under IRC Section 41 for Taxpayers that Expense Research and Development Costs on their Financial Statements pursuant to ASC 730,” commonly referred to as the “ASC 730 Safe Harbor Directive,” during the second half of 2018 has significantly increased our estimated research and development ("R&D") tax credits, resulting in an incremental benefit to our effective tax rate of 4.5% for the first quarter 2019 compared to the first quarter 2018. Additionally, we have experienced a decrease in tax shortfalls related to stock-based compensation, resulting in an incremental benefit to our effective tax rate of 4.3% for the first quarter 2019 compared to the first quarter 2018.



Net Income. Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $0.5 million to $3.4 million, or $0.24 per basic and diluted share, compared with net income of $4.0 million, or $0.29 per basic and diluted share, for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Net income represented 5% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 6% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Sources of Liquidity



As of March 31, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $4.4 million and our remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $20.3 million, compared to $5.7 million of cash and cash equivalents and $20.3 million of remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2018. In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into the Previous Credit Agreement which provided for the $125 million Previous Term Loan Facility and the $50 million Previous Revolving Credit Facility. On October 13, 2017, the Company entered into the Second Amendment to refinance and decrease the aggregate



27



 principal amount of the credit facilities from $175 million to $162 million, which included the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and the $45 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility. On February 8, 2018, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to increase the aggregate principal amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.



As of March 31, 2019, we had $125.1 million in principal amount of indebtedness outstanding under the Amended Credit Facilities. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents of $4.4 million as of March 31, 2019, the future operating cash flows of the combined entity, and our remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $20.3 million as of March 31, 2019, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing cash requirements for the next twelve months. We cannot provide assurance that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than we expect as of the date of filing of this Form 10-Q. If sources of liquidity are not available or if we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations during the next twelve months, we may be required to obtain additional sources of funds through additional operational improvements, capital market transactions, asset sales or financing from third parties, a combination thereof or otherwise. We cannot provide assurance that these additional sources of funds will be available or, if available, would have reasonable terms.



To finance the closing of the Get Real Health transaction, which occurred on May 3, 2019, the Company used a draw of approximately $11.0 million under its Amended Revolving Credit Facility. If the Company is required to make earnout payments (up to $14.0 million) after the end of 2019, the Company expects to use additional draws on its Amended Revolving Credit Facility.



Operating Cash Flow Activities



Net cash provided by operating activities increased $4.8 million, from $3.1 million provided by operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to $7.9 million provided by operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase in cash flows provided from operations is primarily due to more cash-advantageous changes in working capital. Working capital was a net use of cash during the first quarter 2018 in the amount of $7.4 million, compared to a net use during the first quarter 2019 of only $3.0 million. During the first quarter 2018, rapid revenue growth for TruBridge resulted in expansion of accounts receivable of approximately $3.0 million and financing receivables of approximately $2.4 million, as we were still in the early-stages of the MU3 opportunity (the sales of which have been nearly all under short-term payment plans). Conversely, modest TruBridge revenue growth during the first quarter 2019 coupled with collections on past financing receivables have greatly abated the related cash flow headwinds. As a result, these components of working capital, which combined for $5.4 million of cash flow headwinds during the first quarter 2018, were effectively cash-neutral during the first quarter 2019.



Investing Cash Flow Activities



Net cash used in investing activities increased with $0.5 million used in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $0.1 million used during the three months ended March 31, 2018. We do not anticipate the need for significant capital expenditures during the remainder of 2019. 



Financing Cash Flow Activities



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, our financing activities used net cash of $8.7 million, as we paid a net $7.1 million in long-term debt principal and declared and paid dividends in the amount of $1.4 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we made a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility in accordance with the excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirements of the Amended Credit Agreement. Financing cash flow activities used $1.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to $0.5 million net paid in long-term debt principal and $1.4 million cash paid in dividends. 



We believe that paying dividends is an effective way of providing an investment return to our stockholders and a beneficial use of our cash. However, the declaration of dividends by CPSI is subject to compliance with the terms of our Amended Credit Agreement and the discretion of our Board of Directors, which may decide to change or terminate the Company's dividend policy at any time. Our Board of Directors will continue to take into account such matters as general business conditions, capital needs, our financial results and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant.



28



Credit Agreement



As of March 31, 2019, we had $95.4 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Term Loan Facility and $29.7 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Each of the Amended Credit Facilities continues to bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, either (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greater of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2). The applicable margin range for LIBOR loans and the letter of credit fee ranges from 2.0% to 3.5%. The applicable margin range for base rate loans ranges from 1.0% to 2.5%, in each case based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio. 



Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30. 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date"). Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.



The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.



The Amended Credit Agreement, as amended by the Third Amendment, provides incremental facility capacity of $50 million, subject to certain conditions. The Amended Credit Agreement includes a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things and in each case subject to certain exceptions and baskets, impose operating and financial restrictions on the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, including the ability to incur additional debt; incur liens and encumbrances; make certain restricted payments, including paying dividends on the Company's equity securities or payments to redeem, repurchase or retire the Company's equity securities (which are subject to our compliance, on a pro forma basis to give effect to the restricted payment, with the fixed charge coverage ratio and consolidated leverage ratio described below); enter into certain restrictive agreements; make investments, loans and acquisitions; merge or consolidate with any other person; dispose of assets; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; engage in transactions with affiliates; and materially alter the business we conduct. The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25:1.00 throughout the duration of such agreement. Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is required to comply with a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.95:1.00 through December 31, 2017 and 3.50:1.00 from January 1, 2018 and thereafter. The Amended Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default. We believe that we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the Amended Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2019.



The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter. The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period. The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018. 



29



Backlog



Backlog consists of revenues we reasonably expect to recognize over the next twelve months under all existing contracts, including those with remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less and those with fees that are variable in which we estimate future revenues. The revenues to be recognized may relate to a combination of one-time fees for system sales and recurring fees for support and maintenance and TruBridge services. As of March 31, 2019, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $17 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $227 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance, Cloud EHR contracts, and TruBridge services. As of March 31, 2018, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $35 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $230 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance and TruBridge services. 



Bookings



Bookings is a key operational metric used by management to assess the relative success of our sales generation efforts, and were as follows for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Acute Care EHR bookings in the first quarter 2019 decreased by $9.2 million, or 53%, from the first quarter 2018, mostly as net new installation bookings have been severely impaired by a lack of urgency on the part of prospective customers, resulting in a low volume of decisions for new system implementations. Management views this as a timing anomaly, and does not consider the quality of its pipeline to have diminished materially.



Post-acute Care EHR bookings in the first quarter 2019 increased by $0.7 million, or 97%, from the first quarter 2018, as beneficial regulatory factors have worked in tandem with our recent efforts to improve the related product functionality and usability to drive improved demand in both the net new and add-on sales enviroments.



TruBridge bookings increased $0.4 million, or 11%, as demand for the remote hosting products offered by our IT Managed Services division and the revenue cycle optimization tools offered through the TruBridge RCM solution led to increased deal-flow.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We had no off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K, as of March 31, 2019.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Our Management Discussion and Analysis is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make subjective or complex judgments that may affect the reported financial condition and results of operations. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and other financial amounts that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates and these estimates may differ under different assumptions or conditions. We continually evaluate the information used to make these estimates as our business and the economic environment changes.



30



In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, we identified our critical accounting polices related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, allowance for credit losses, and estimates. There have been no significant changes to these critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2019.



