Item 4.Controls and Procedures.



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that the information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Because of the inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, no evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, with a company have been prevented or detected on a timely basis. Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.



As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at the reasonable assurance level.



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



 On May 3, 2019, we acquired Get Real Health, as further described in Note 4 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. We continue to integrate policies, processes, people, technology, and operations for our combined operations, and we will continue to evaluate the impact of any related changes to internal control over financial reporting during the fiscal year. There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. We implemented internal controls to ensure we adequately evaluated our operating and finance leases and properly assessed the impact of the new accounting standard related to lease accounting on our financial statements to facilitate adoption on January 1, 2019. There were no significant changes to our internal controls over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new standard.



34



Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures.



Not applicable.



Item 5.Other Information.



None.



Item 6.Exhibits.



35



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



36



SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



37
