Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



Our financial position is exposed to a variety of risks, including interest rate risk, equity price risk, and foreign currency exchange risk.



Interest Rate Risk



Fixed Income Securities We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives. We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our fixed income securities as of January 27, 2018. Our fixed income investments are held for purposes other than trading. Our fixed income investments are not leveraged as of January 27, 2018. We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.



Financing Receivables As of January 27, 2018, our financing receivables had a carrying value of $9.8 billion, compared with $9.6 billion as of July 29, 2017. As of January 27, 2018, a hypothetical 50 basis points (“BPS”) increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of our financing receivables by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.1 billion, respectively. 



Debt  As of January 27, 2018, we had $30.5 billion in principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which consisted of $2.9 billion floating-rate notes and $27.6 billion fixed-rate notes. The carrying amount of the senior notes was $30.4 billion, and the related fair value based on market prices was $31.8 billion. As of January 27, 2018, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $6.8 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.6 billion, respectively. However, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt that is not hedged. 



Equity Price Risk



The fair value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility. We may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify our overall investment portfolio. Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most closely match the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index or NASDAQ Composite Index. These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading. To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives designated as hedging instruments.



Publicly Traded Equity Securities The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of publicly traded equity securities as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each equity security in the portfolio, excluding hedged equity securities, if any. Potential fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 20%, and 30% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. The hypothetical fair values as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017 are as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



76

Investments in Privately Held Companies We have also invested in privately held companies. These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are accounted for using primarily either the cost or the equity method. As of January 27, 2018, the total carrying amount of our investments in privately held companies was $982 million, compared with $983 million at July 29, 2017. Some of the privately held companies in which we invested are in the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. Our evaluation of investments in privately held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses invested in, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return. 



Foreign Currency Exchange Risk



Our foreign exchange forward and option contracts outstanding as of the respective period-ends are summarized in U.S. dollar equivalents as follows (in millions): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on revenue has not been material because our revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our revenue to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our revenue is influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations.



Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated. In the first six months of fiscal 2018, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased our combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by approximately $41 million, or 0.5%, compared with the first six months of fiscal 2017. To reduce variability in operating expenses and service cost of sales caused by non-U.S.-dollar denominated operating expenses and costs, we hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions with currency options and forward contracts. These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign currency protection over long time horizons. In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. The gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts mitigate the effect of currency movements on our operating expenses and service cost of sales.



We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities. The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances. We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for speculative purposes.



77

