Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



The information contained in this MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in our 2017 10-K.  



Forward-Looking Statements 



This report contains a number of forward-looking statements relative to our future plans and our expectations concerning our business and the industries we serve. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about a number of important factors, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in the forward-looking statements. Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2017 10-K. Readers are strongly encouraged to review those sections closely in conjunction with MD&A.  



Company Overview 



We are one of the world’s largest and most established business support solutions (“BSS”) providers, primarily serving some of the most well-known communications, information, and content companies around the globe. We help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape, bringing more than thirty-five years of experience supporting the world’s most respected service providers. We make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter as they work to evolve their businesses from a single-product offering to highly complex and competitive multi-product offerings, while also requiring increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences for their customers.  



We offer BSS and revenue management, customer experience and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands. Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention. 



Over the years, we have focused our research and development (“R&D”) and acquisition investments on expanding our offerings in a timely and efficient manner to address the complex, transformative needs of service providers. Our scalable, modular, and flexible solutions combined with our domain expertise and our ability to effectively migrate clients to our solutions, provide the industry with proven solutions to improve their profitability and consumers’ experiences. We have specifically architected our solutions to offer service providers a phased, incremental approach to transforming their businesses, thereby reducing the business interruption risk associated with this evolution.  



We generate approximately 70% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, logistics, and transportation. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2018, we generated approximately 84% of our revenues from the Americas region, approximately 10% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and approximately 6% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region. 



We are a S&P Small Cap 600 company.  



Key Impact of U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 



On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) was passed into legislation. The Tax Reform Act amends the Internal Revenue Code, reducing the corporate income tax rate, changing or eliminating certain income tax deductions and credits and provides sweeping change to how U.S. companies are taxed on their international operations. The Tax Reform Act is generally effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017; however, certain provisions of the Tax Reform Act have effective dates beginning in 2017.  



The Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. maximum rate of income taxation from 35% to 21% applicable to taxable years beginning January 1, 2018. We currently expect our GAAP effective income tax rates for the full year 2018 to be approximately 30%.  



See Note 7 to our 2017 10-K for additional impacts of the Tax Reform Act. 



The overall anticipated impacts of the Tax Reform Act (including our effective income tax rate going forward) are based on our current assessments and underlying estimates. We may encounter changes in these assessments and estimates or come across unforeseen additional items in the future not currently contemplated by us that may result in changes to our current anticipated impacts  



19 



of the Tax Reform Act (including our effective income rate going forward). We undertake no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 



Impact of New Revenue Accounting Pronouncement 



As discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, in January 2018 we adopted ASU 606, a single comprehensive model which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP, utilizing the cumulative effect approach. Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.  



In conjunction with the adoption of this ASU, we recorded a cumulative adjustment increasing beginning retained earnings (net of tax) by approximately $7 million, primarily related to contracts that we were required to defer revenue as we did not have VSOE for certain undelivered elements. We do not anticipate ASU 606 will have a material impact on our revenues in 2018 and beyond, as the new revenue accounting rules under ASU 606 are fairly consistent with our current policies and guidelines based on the nature of our client contracts.  



Since we adopted ASC 606 using the cumulative effect method, prior period comparative information in our Financial Statements have not been adjusted and continue to be as previously reported. As a result, beginning in 2018, the following key reclassifications have occurred: 



•  



Certain deferred contract costs that had been included in our client contracts and other current and non-current assets on our Balance Sheet were reclassified and presented separately as a non-current client contract asset, net of related amortization.  



•  



Certain revenues and related costs previously recorded as software and services or maintenance on our Income Statement are now being classified as cloud and related solutions.  



•  



Investments in client contracts on our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities.  



Refer to Note 2 for further detail and discussion regarding the adoption of ASU 606.  



Acquisition of Business Ink 



As discussed in Note 5 to the Financial Statements, on February 28, 2017 we acquired Business Ink, a multi-channel communications company based in Austin, Texas, for approximately $70 million, excluding acquisition-related expenses. This represents a purchase price of slightly over one times historical revenues. For the first quarter of 2018, Business Ink contributed $5.2 million of cloud and related solutions revenues and was neutral to our results of operations for the quarter when factoring in acquired amortization expense. At this time, for the full year 2018 we expect that Business Ink will contribute approximately $50 million of revenue for the ten months of 2018 and decrease our results of operations by approximately 5%. After we complete our integration plan for Business Ink over the next year or so, we believe it will then be accretive to our earnings on a go forward basis.  



The expected impact of the Business Ink acquisition includes estimates for certain integration-related expenses and estimates for the amortization of acquired intangible assets. Because of the inherent uncertainties in making such estimates, the actual impact of Business Ink on our financial performance for 2018 and beyond may vary from our current expectations as we work through our integration efforts and complete the Business Ink purchase accounting. We undertake no duty to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 



20 



Management Overview of Quarterly Results 



First Quarter Highlights. A summary of our results of operations for the first quarter of 2018, when compared to the first quarter of 2017, is as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentages):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)  



Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges. 



Revenues. Our revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $201.7 million, a 5% increase when compared to revenues of $192.5 million for the first quarter of 2017. The year-over-year increase in revenues can be mainly attributed to the following: (i) approximately $5 million of revenues generated from Business Ink, discussed above; and (ii) continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed services arrangements.  



Operating Results. Operating income for the first quarter of 2018 was $25.8 million, or a 12.8% operating income margin percentage, compared to $27.0 million, or a 14.0% operating income margin percentage for the first quarter of 2017, with the decreases in operating income and operating income margin percentage mainly attributed to the $2.4 million of Business Ink acquisition-related costs. 



Diluted EPS. Diluted EPS for the first quarter of 2018 was $0.42 compared to $0.62 for the first quarter of 2017, with the decrease mainly attributed to a lower effective income tax rate of 9% for the first quarter of 2017, compared to an effective income tax rate of 31% for the current quarter. The lower first quarter 2017 income tax rate of 9% was primarily the result of an approximately $5 million net income tax benefit resulting from Comcast’s exercise of 1.4 million vested stock warrants in January 2017. 



Cash and Cash Flows. As of March 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $222.1 million, as compared $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017. The quarterly decrease can be mainly attributed to the purchase of Business Ink for approximately $70 million. Our cash flows from operating activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $29.9 million. See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows. 



Significant Client Relationships  



Client Concentration. A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our largest clients, which are Comcast, Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”), and DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”).  



Revenues from these clients represented the following percentages of our total revenues for the indicated periods: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



21 



The percentages of net billed accounts receivable balances attributable to our largest clients as of the indicated dates were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See our 2017 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast, Charter, and DISH. 



Risk of Client Concentration. We expect to continue to generate a significant percentage of our future revenues from our largest clients mentioned above. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of clients. Should a significant client: (i) terminate or fail to renew their contracts with us, in whole or in part, for any reason; (ii) significantly reduce the number of customer accounts processed on our solutions, the price paid for our services, or the scope of services that we provide; or (iii) experience significant financial or operating difficulties, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  



Critical Accounting Policies  



The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies. In applying our accounting policies, different business conditions or the use of different assumptions may result in materially different amounts reported in our Financial Statements. 



We have identified the most critical accounting policies that affect our financial position and the results of our operations. Those critical accounting policies were determined by considering the accounting policies that involve the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. The most critical accounting policies identified relate to the following items: (i) revenue recognition; (ii) impairment assessments of long-lived assets; (iii) income taxes; and (iv) loss contingencies. These critical accounting policies, as well as our other significant accounting policies, are discussed in our 2017 10-K. 



Results of Operations 



Total Revenues. Total revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $201.7 million, a 5% increase when compared to $192.5 million for the first quarter of 2017. The year-over-year increase in revenues can be mainly attributed to the following: (i) approximately $5 million of revenues generated from Business Ink, discussed above; and (ii) continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed services arrangements.  



The components of total revenues, discussed in more detail below, are as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We use the location of the client as the basis of attributing revenues to individual countries. Revenues by geographic regions for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



22 



Cloud and Related Solutions Revenues. Cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $177.5 million, a 12% increase when compared to $158.8 million for the first quarter of 2017. The increase in cloud and related solutions revenues is primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606 which resulted in $7.0 million of revenue previously classified as software and services and maintenance revenue now being classified as cloud and related solutions revenues, and the $5.2 million of revenues generated by the acquired Business Ink business. The remaining increase is mainly attributed to the execution of additional managed services arrangements, an increase in ancillary services revenues, and the conversion of approximately four million customer accounts onto ACP over the past twelve months.  



Software and Services Revenues. Software and services revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $12.0 million, a 21% decrease when compared to $15.1 million for the first quarter of 2017. The decrease in software and services revenues can be attributed mainly to the shift in our focus towards more recurring revenue arrangements, which are included in our cloud and related solutions revenues, and the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in $1.6 million of revenue previously classified as software and services now being classified as cloud and related solutions.  



Maintenance Revenues. Maintenance revenues for the first quarter of 2018 were $12.2 million, a 34% decrease when compared to $18.6 million for the first quarter of 2017, with the decrease mainly due to the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in $5.1 million of revenue previously classified as maintenance now being classified as cloud and related solutions.  



Total Expenses. Our operating expenses for the first quarter of 2018 were $175.9 million, a 6% increase when compared to $165.5 million for the first quarter of 2017. The year-over-year increase in total expenses can be mainly attributed to the following: (i) one month of operating expenses of Business Ink of $4.7 million included in our first quarter 2018 results; (ii) $2.4 million of acquisition-related costs from Business Ink; and (iii) the increase in our planned investment that began early in 2017.  



The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below. 



Cost of Revenues. See our 2017 10-K for a description of the types of costs that are included in the individual line items for cost of revenues. 



Cost of Cloud and Related Solutions (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of cloud and related solutions for the first quarter of 2018 increased 14% to $86.9 million, from $76.1 million for the first quarter of 2017. This increase relates almost entirely to the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in $6.3 million of costs, previously classified as cost of software and services and maintenance, now being classified as cost of cloud and related solutions, and one month of cloud and related solutions expense from the acquired Business Ink business. Total cloud and related solutions cost as a percentage of cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 49.0% and 47.9%, respectively, with the increase attributed to the reclassifications resulting from the adoption of ASC 606. 



Cost of Software and Services (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of software and services for the first quarter of 2018 decreased 24% to $8.5 million, from $11.3 million for the first quarter of 2017. This decrease is reflective of the decrease in revenues as personnel and the related costs previously allocated to professional services projects have been reassigned to other areas of the business. Total software and services cost as a percentage of our software and services revenues for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 71.4% and 74.9%, respectively. 



Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services. Our quarterly revenues for software licenses and professional services may fluctuate, depending on various factors, including the timing of executed contracts and revenue recognition, and the delivery of contracted solutions. However, the costs associated with software and professional services revenues are not subject to the same degree of variability (e.g., these costs are generally fixed in nature within a relatively short period of time), and thus, fluctuations in our cost of software and services as a percentage of our software and services revenues will likely occur between periods.  



Cost of Maintenance (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of maintenance for the first quarter of 2018 decreased 46% to $5.7 million, from $10.4 million for the first quarter of 2017. Total cost of maintenance as a percentage of our maintenance revenues for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 46.2% and 55.7%, respectively. These decreases can be attributed to the adoption of ASC 606, which resulted in $5.1 million of costs, previously classified as maintenance, now being classified as cost of cloud and related solutions.  



R&D Expense. R&D expense for the first quarter of 2018 increased 9% to $29.4 million, from $26.8 million for the first quarter of 2017. As a percentage of total revenues, R&D expense for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 14.6% and 13.9%, respectively. These increases are reflective of our heightened level of investment that began in early 2017.  



Our R&D efforts are focused on the continued evolution of our solutions that enable service providers worldwide to provide a more personalized customer experience while introducing new digital products and services. This includes the continued investment in our cloud-based solutions (principally, around our Ascendon platform).  



23 



Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Expense. SG&A expense for the first quarter of 2018 increased 9% to $40.6 million, from $37.3 million for the first quarter of 2017. The increase can be primarily attributed to the $2.4 million of Business Ink acquisition-related costs, and to a lesser degree, Business Ink’s SG&A costs. Our SG&A costs as a percentage of total revenues for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were 20.2% and 19.4%, respectively.   



 Operating Income.  Operating income for the first quarter of 2018 was $25.8 million, or 12.8% of total revenues, compared to $27.0 million, or 14.0% of total revenues for the first quarter of 2017. The decrease in operating income and operating income margin percentage can be mainly attributed to the $2.4 million of acquisition-related costs. 



Loss on Extinguishment of Debt. In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement (see Note 4 to our Financial Statements). As a result, we incurred a loss of $0.8 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. 



Income Tax Provision. The effective income tax rates for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The effective income tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 reflects the impact of the U.S. Tax Cut and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) that was passed into legislation in December 2017. The Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. maximum rate of income taxation from 35% to 21% applicable to taxable years beginning January 1, 2018. As a result, for the full-year 2018 we are currently estimating an effective income tax rate of approximately 30%. 



The lower first quarter 2017 effective income tax rate reflects an approximately $5 million net benefit resulting from Comcast’s exercise of 1.4 million vested stock warrants in January 2017, as the stock warrants appreciated in value since their vesting, resulting in an income tax benefit to us when exercised.  



Liquidity  



Cash and Liquidity 



As of March 31, 2018, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $222.1 million, as compared to $261.4 million as of as of December 31, 2017. We generally invest our excess cash balances in low-risk, short-term investments to limit our exposure to market and credit risks.  



During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement primarily to extend the term of the loan from February 2020 to March 2023 and obtain a reduction in the interest rate and other fees. The 2018 Credit Agreement increased our liquidity and capital resources position by approximately $30 million.  



As part of our 2018 Credit Agreement, we have a $200 million senior secured revolving loan facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in March 2023. As of March 31, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2018 Revolver. The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants and financial covenants. As of March 31, 2018, and the date of this filing, we believe that we are in compliance with the provisions of the 2018 Credit Agreement.  



Our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances as of the end of the indicated periods were located in the following geographical regions (in thousands):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We generally have ready access to substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances, but may face limitations on moving cash out of certain foreign jurisdictions due to currency controls. As of March 31, 2018, we had $2.7 million of cash restricted as to use primarily to collateralize outstanding letters of credit. 



24 



Cash Flows from Operating Activities  



We calculate our cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, beginning with net income, adding back the impact of non-cash items or non-operating activity (e.g., depreciation, amortization, amortization of OID, impairments, gain/loss from debt extinguishments, deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation, etc.), and then factoring in the impact of changes in operating assets and liabilities. See our 2017 10-K for a description of the primary uses and sources of our cash flows from operating activities.  



Our 2018 and 2017 net cash flows from operating activities, broken out between operations and changes in operating assets and liabilities, for the indicated quarterly periods are as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cash flows from operating activities for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017 reflect the negative impacts of the payment of the 2017 and 2016 year-end accrued employee incentive compensation in the first quarter subsequent to the year-end accrual for these items.  



We believe the above table illustrates our ability to generate recurring quarterly cash flows from our operations, and the importance of managing our working capital items. Variations in our net cash provided by operating activities are generally related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities (related mostly to fluctuations in timing at quarter-end of client payments and changes in accrued expenses), and generally over longer periods of time, do not significantly impact our cash flows from operations. 



Significant fluctuations in key operating assets and liabilities between 2018 and 2017 that impacted our cash flows from operating activities are as follows:  



Billed Trade Accounts Receivable 



Management of our billed accounts receivable is one of the primary factors in maintaining consistently strong quarterly cash flows from operating activities. Our billed trade accounts receivable balance includes significant billings for several non-revenue items (primarily postage, sales tax, and deferred revenue items). As a result, we evaluate our performance in collecting our accounts receivable through our calculation of days billings outstanding (“DBO”) rather than a typical days sales outstanding (“DSO”) calculation.  



Our gross and net billed trade accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts receivable (“Allowance”) as of the end of the indicated quarterly periods, and the related DBOs for the quarters then ended, are as follows (in thousands, except DBOs):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As a global provider of software and professional services, a portion of our accounts receivable balance relates to clients outside the U.S. As a result, this diversity in the geographic composition of our client base may adversely impact our DBOs as longer billing cycles (i.e., billing terms and cash collection cycles) are an inherent characteristic of international software and professional services transactions. For example, our ability to bill (i.e., send an invoice) and collect arrangement fees may be dependent upon, among other things: (i) the completion of various client administrative matters, local country billing protocols and processes (including local cultural differences), and/or non-client administrative matters; (ii) us meeting certain contractual invoicing milestones; or (iii) the overall project status in certain situations in which we act as a subcontractor to another vendor on a project.  



25 



Unbilled Trade Accounts Receivable  



Revenue earned and recognized prior to the scheduled billing date of an item is reflected as unbilled accounts receivable. Our unbilled accounts receivable as of the end of the indicated periods are as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The unbilled accounts receivable balances above are primarily the result of several transactions with various milestone and contractual billing dates which have not yet been reached. Unbilled accounts receivable are an inherent characteristic of certain software and professional services transactions and may fluctuate between quarters, as these types of transactions typically have scheduled invoicing terms over several quarters, as well as certain milestone billing events.  



Accrued Employee Compensation 



Accrued employee compensation decreased $17.0 million to $46.0 million as of March 31, 2018, from $63.0 million as of December 31, 2017, due primarily to the payment of the 2017 employee incentive compensation that was fully accrued at December 31, 2016, offset to a certain degree by the accrual for the 2018 employee incentive compensation.  



 Cash Flows from Investing Activities 



Our typical investing activities consist of purchases/sales of short-term investments and purchases of property and equipment, which are discussed below. Additionally, as discussed earlier, during the first quarter of 2018 we acquired Business Ink for $68.6 million, net of cash acquired, which is included in our cash flows from investing activities. 



Purchases/Sales of Short-term Investments. For the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, we purchased $15.1 million and $18.0 million, respectively, and sold (or had mature) $79.5 million and $37.8 million, respectively, of short-term investments. We continually evaluate the appropriate mix of our investment of excess cash balances between cash equivalents and short-term investments in order to maximize our investment returns and will likely purchase and sell additional short-term investments in the future. 



Property and Equipment/Client Contracts. Our capital expenditures for the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, for property and equipment, and investments in client contracts were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Our property and equipment expenditures for these periods consisted principally of investments in: (i) computer hardware, software, and related equipment; and (ii) statement production equipment.  



As a result of the adoption of ASC 606, $1.5 million of investments in client contracts have been reclassified to operating activities from investing activities for the first quarter ended March 31, 2018. 



 Cash Flows from Financing Activities  



Our financing activities typically consist of activities associated with our common stock and our long-term debt.  



Cash Dividends Paid on Common Stock. During the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, the Board approved dividend payments totaling $7.1 million and $6.7 million, respectively. During the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, we paid dividends of $7.4 million and $7.0 million, respectively (with the additional amounts attributed to dividends for incentive shares paid upon vesting).  



Repurchase of Common Stock. During the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, we repurchased 0.1 million shares of our common stock under the guidelines of our Stock Repurchase Program for $5.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively.  



Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million and 0.2 million shares, respectively, of our common stock in each period for $6.2 million and $6.1 million, respectively, in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans. 



26 



Long-term Debt.  



During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million under the 2018 Credit Agreement, resulting in a net increase of available cash of $30.0 million. As part of the refinancing, we paid $1.4 million of deferred financing costs.  



Additionally, during the first quarter of 2017, we made principal repayments of $3.8 million. 



See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion of our long-term debt. 



Capital Resources  



The following are the key items to consider in assessing our sources and uses of capital resources:  



Current Sources of Capital Resources.  



•  



Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments. As of March 31, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $222.1 million, of which approximately 73% is in U.S. Dollars and held in the U.S. We have $2.7 million of restricted cash, used primarily to collateralize outstanding letters of credit. For the remainder of the monies denominated in foreign currencies and/or located outside the U.S., we do not anticipate any material amounts being unavailable for use in running our business.  



•  



Operating Cash Flows. As described in the Liquidity section above, we believe we have the ability to generate strong cash flows to fund our operating activities and act as a source of funds for our capital resource needs.  



•  



Long-Term Debt\Revolving Credit Facility. In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding term loan principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million, resulting in a net increase in cash of $30 million (the 2018 Credit Agreement). The 2018 Credit Agreement also includes a $200 million revolving loan facility (2018 Revolver). As of March 31, 2018, we had no borrowing outstanding on our 2018 Revolver and had the entire $200 million available to us. Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements. 



Uses/Potential Uses of Capital Resources. Below are the key items to consider in assessing our uses/potential uses of capital resources:  



•  



Common Stock Repurchases. We have made repurchases of our common stock in the past under our Stock Repurchase Program. As of March 31, 2018, we had 6.1 million shares authorized for repurchase remaining under our Stock Repurchase Program. Our 2018 Credit Agreement places certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock.  



During the first quarter of 2018, we repurchased 0.1 million shares of our common stock for $5.7 million (weighted-average price of $45.78 per share).  



Under our Stock Repurchase Program, we may repurchase shares in the open market or a privately negotiated transaction, including through an ASR plan or under a SEC Rule 10b5-1 plan. The actual timing and amount of the share repurchases will be dependent on the then current market conditions and other business-related factors.  



Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the first quarter of 2018, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million shares of our common stock for $6.2 million in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans. 



Our common stock repurchases are discussed in more detail in Note 9 to our Financial Statements. 



•  



Cash Dividends. During the first quarter of 2018, the Board declared dividends totaling $7.1 million. Going forward, we expect to pay cash dividends each year in March, June, September, and December, with the amount and timing subject to the Board’s approval. 



•  



Acquisitions. In February 2018, we acquired Business Ink, a privately-held multi-channel business communications company based in Austin, Texas for approximately $70 million. The acquisition was funded from currently available cash. Our acquisition of Business Ink is discussed in more detail in Note 5 to our Financial Statements. 



As part of our growth strategy, we are continually evaluating potential business and/or asset acquisitions and investments in market share expansion with our existing and potential new clients.  



27 



•  



Capital Expenditures. During the  first quarter of 2018, we spent $12.2 million on capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2018, we had committed to purchase approximately $14 million of equipment.  



•  



Stock Warrants. We have issued Stock Warrants with an exercise price of $26.68 per warrant to Comcast as an incentive for Comcast to convert new customer accounts to ACP. Once vested, Comcast may exercise the Stock Warrants and elect either physical delivery of common shares or net share settlement (cashless exercise). Alternatively, the exercise of the Stock Warrants may be settled with cash based solely on our approval, or if Comcast were to beneficially own or control in excess of 19.99% of the common stock or voting of the Company. As of March 31, 2018, approximately 1.4 million Stock Warrants are outstanding, of which 0.4 million are vested. 



The Stock Warrants are discussed in more detail in Note 9 to our Financial Statements.  



•  



Long-Term Debt. As discussed above, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement in March 2018. As of March 31, 2018, our long-term debt consisted of the following: (i) 2016 Convertible Notes with a par value of $230.0 million; and (ii) 2018 Credit Agreement term loan borrowings of $150.0 million.  



2016 Convertible Notes 



During the next twelve months, there are no scheduled conversion triggers on our 2016 Convertible Notes. As a result, we expect our required debt service cash outlay during the next twelve months for the 2016 Convertible Notes to be limited to interest payments of $9.8 million. 



2018 Credit Agreement 



Our 2018 Credit Agreement mandatory repayments and the cash interest expense (based upon current interest rates) for the next twelve months is $7.5 million, and $6.4 million, respectively. We have the ability to make prepayments on our 2018 Credit Agreement without penalty.  



Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.  



In summary, we expect to continue to have material needs for capital resources going forward, as noted above. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and our 2018 Revolver, together with cash expected to be generated in the future from our current operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital resource requirements for at least the next twelve months. We also believe we could obtain additional capital through other debt sources which may be available to us if deemed appropriate. 



