Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



The information contained in this MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto in our 2018 10-K.  



Forward-Looking Statements 



This report contains a number of forward-looking statements relative to our future plans and our expectations concerning our business and the industries we serve. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions about a number of important factors, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in the forward-looking statements. Some of the risks that are foreseen by management are outlined within Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors of this report and in Part I Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2018 10-K. Readers are strongly encouraged to review those sections closely in conjunction with MD&A.  



Company Overview 



We are one of the world’s leading revenue management and digital monetization, customer experience, and payment solutions providers, and a trusted partner to some of the most well-known communications, media, and entertainment companies around the globe. We leverage more than 35 years of experience to help our clients simplify the complexity of a rapidly changing business landscape. Drawing from real-world knowledge and unparalleled expertise, we design and implement business solutions that make their hardest decisions simpler and smarter so they can focus on evolving their businesses to provide highly sophisticated and competitive multi-product offerings while also delivering increasingly differentiated, real-time, and personalized experiences that meet the ever-changing demands of their customers across all stages of the customer lifecycle.  



We offer revenue management, customer experience, and digital monetization solutions for every stage of the customer lifecycle so service providers can deliver an outstanding customer experience that adapts to their customers’ rapidly changing demands. Our solutions are built on proven public and private cloud platforms, with out-of-the-box and managed service models that adapt to fit their unique business needs and enable the transformative change required to create personalized experiences that drive loyalty and retention. 



Over the years, we have focused our research and development (“R&D”) and acquisition investments on expanding our offerings in a timely and efficient manner to address the complex, transformative needs of service providers. Our scalable, modular, and flexible solutions combined with our domain expertise and our ability to effectively migrate clients to our solutions, provide the industry with proven solutions to improve their profitability and consumers’ experiences. We have specifically architected our solutions to offer service providers a phased, incremental approach to transforming their businesses, thereby reducing the business interruption risk associated with this evolution.  



We generate approximately 55% of our revenues from the North American cable and satellite markets, approximately 20% of our revenues from global wireline and wireless communication providers, and the remainder from a variety of other verticals, such as financial services, healthcare, logistics, and transportation. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2019 we generated approximately 86% of our revenues from the Americas region, approximately 10% of our revenues from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, and approximately 4% of our revenues from the Asia Pacific region. 



We are a S&P Small Cap 600 company.  



Impact of New Lease Accounting Pronouncement 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASC 842”), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases, including operating leases, with a term greater than twelve months on its balance sheet. We adopted the ASU in January of 2019, utilizing the effective date method of transition. While the adoption of this standard resulted in a material gross-up of our Balance Sheet assets and liabilities, it did not have a material impact on our Income Statement or Statement of Cash Flows. 



Refer to Notes 2 and 5 to our Financial Statements for further detail regarding the adoption of ASC 842. 



16 



Management Overview of Quarterly Results 



First Quarter Highlights. A summary of our results of operations for the first quarter of 2019, when compared to the first quarter of 2018, is as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts and percentages):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)  



Stock-based compensation included in the table above excludes amounts that have been recorded in restructuring and reorganization charges. 



Revenues. Revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $244.8 million, a 21% increase when compared to revenues of $201.7 million for the first quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the additional revenues generated from the acquisitions of Forte on October 1, 2018 and Business Ink on February 28, 2018, and the continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed service arrangements. 



Operating Results. Operating income for the first quarter of 2019 was $32.1 million, or a 13.1% operating margin percentage, compared to $25.8 million, or a 12.8% operating margin percentage for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in operating income is primarily a result of the higher revenues generated in the first quarter of 2019, as reflected by our relatively consistent operating margin percentage.  



Diluted EPS. Diluted EPS for the first quarter of 2019 was $0.59 compared to $0.42 for the first quarter of 2018, reflective of the higher operating income for the first quarter of 2019. 



Cash and Cash Flows. As of March 31, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $141.9 million, as compared to $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018. Our cash flows from operating activities for the first quarter of 2019 were $12.8 million. See the Liquidity section below for further discussion of our cash flows. 



Significant Client Relationships  



Client Concentration. A large percentage of our historical revenues have been generated from our two largest clients, which are Comcast and Charter Corporation Inc. (“Charter”). 



Revenues from these clients for the indicated periods were as follows (in thousands, except percentages): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



17 



The percentages of net billed accounts receivable balances attributable to our largest clients as of the indicated dates were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See our 2018 10-K for additional discussion of our business relationships and contractual terms with Comcast and Charter. 



Comcast. Comcast continues to be our largest client, generating 22% of our total revenues for the first quarter of 2019. In November 2018, Comcast exercised the first of their two one-year renewal options extending the term of their agreement through June 30, 2020. Terms of the extension remain consistent with the financial terms and obligations under the existing agreement. Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, Comcast has the right to exercise an additional one-year renewal option no later than January 1, 2020, to extend the term of the Agreement through June 30, 2021.  



We are currently engaged in discussions with Comcast regarding contract renewal terms. Although we believe our operating relationship with Comcast is good, there can be no assurances around the timing and/or terms of any renewal arrangements at this time.  



A copy of the Comcast agreement and related amendments, with confidential information redacted, is included in the exhibits to our periodic filings with the SEC. 



Risk of Client Concentration. We expect to continue to generate a significant percentage of our future revenues from our largest clients mentioned above. There are inherent risks whenever a large percentage of total revenues are concentrated with a limited number of clients. Should a significant client: (i) terminate or fail to renew their contracts with us, in whole or in part, for any reason; (ii) significantly reduce the number of customer accounts processed on our solutions, the price paid for our services, or the scope of services that we provide; or (iii) experience significant financial or operating difficulties, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  



Critical Accounting Policies  



The preparation of our Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to select appropriate accounting policies, and to make judgments and estimates affecting the application of those accounting policies. In applying our accounting policies, different business conditions or the use of different assumptions may result in materially different amounts reported in our Financial Statements. 



We have identified the most critical accounting policies that affect our financial position and the results of our operations. Those critical accounting policies were determined by considering the accounting policies that involve the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. The most critical accounting policies identified relate to the following items: (i) revenue recognition; (ii) impairment assessments of long-lived assets; (iii) income taxes; and (iv) loss contingencies. These critical accounting policies, as well as our other significant accounting policies, are discussed in our 2018 10-K. 



Results of Operations 



Total Revenues. Total revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $244.8 million, a 21% increase when compared to $201.7 million for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in revenues can be mainly attributed to the following: (i) the additional revenues generated from the Forte acquisition on October 1, 2018; (ii) the additional revenues from the Business Ink acquisition on February 28, 2018 (as the first quarter of 2019 has a full quarter of revenues as compared to only one month of revenues for the first quarter of 2018); and (iii) continued growth in our cloud solutions and managed services arrangements.   



The components of total revenues, discussed in more detail below, are as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



18 



We use the location of the client as the basis of attributing revenues to individual countries. Revenues by geographic regions for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cloud and Related Solutions Revenues. Cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $219.6 million, a 24% increase when compared to $177.5 million for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in cloud and related solutions revenues between periods is primarily due to the additional revenues generated from the acquired Business Ink and Forte businesses, discussed above, and to a lesser degree, the execution of and performance under managed services and Ascendon arrangements.  



Software and Services Revenues. Software and services revenues for the first quarter of 2019 were $13.0 million, a 9% increase when compared to $12.0 million for the first quarter of 2018, with the increase mainly attributed to the timing of work performed and execution of software license agreements. 



Maintenance Revenues. Maintenance revenues were consistent between the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, coming in at $12.2 million for both periods.  



Total Expenses. Our operating expenses for the first quarter of 2019 were $212.7 million, a 21% increase when compared to $175.9 million for the first quarter of 2018. The increase between periods can be mainly attributed to: (i) additional operating expenses from the acquired Forte business on October 1, 2018, to include acquisition amortization and earn-out compensation; (ii) additional operating expenses from the Business Ink acquisition on February 28, 2018 (as the first quarter of 2019 has a full quarter of expense as compared to only one month of expense for the first quarter of 2018), to include acquisition amortization; and (iii) increased employee-related costs.  



The components of total expenses are discussed in more detail below. 



Cost of Revenues. See our 2018 10-K for a description of the types of costs that are included in the individual line items for cost of revenues. 



The components of cost of revenues, discussed in more detail below, are as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cost of Cloud and Related Solutions (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of cloud and related solutions for the first quarter of 2019 increased 32% to $114.7 million, from $86.9 million for the first quarter of 2018. This increase can be mainly attributed to the cloud and related solutions expense of the acquired Business Ink and Forte businesses included in our results, to include acquisition amortization, and increased employee-related costs. Total cloud and related solutions cost as a percentage of cloud and related solutions revenues for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were 52.2% and 49.0%, respectively (with the first quarter of 2019 reflective of the transaction fees of $17.1 million).  



Cost of Software and Services (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of software and services for the first quarter of 2019 was $8.8 million, a slight increase from $8.5 million for the first quarter of 2018.  Total software and services cost as a percentage of our software and services revenues for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were 67.9% and 71.4%, respectively. 



Variability in quarterly revenues and operating results are inherent characteristics of companies that sell software licenses and perform professional services. Our quarterly revenues for software licenses and professional services may fluctuate, depending on various factors, including the timing of executed contracts and revenue recognition, and the delivery of contracted solutions. However, the costs  



19 



associated with software and professional services revenues are not subject to the same degree of variability (e.g., these costs are generally fixed in nature within a relatively short period of time), and thus, fluctuations in our cost of software and services as a percentage of our software and services revenues will likely occur between periods.  



Cost of Maintenance (Exclusive of Depreciation). The cost of maintenance for the first quarter of 2019 was $5.5 million, a slight decrease from $5.7 million for the first quarter of 2018. Total cost of maintenance as a percentage of our maintenance revenues for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were 44.8% and 46.2%, respectively.  



R&D Expense. R&D expense for the first quarter of 2019 increased 11% to $32.6 million, from $29.4 million for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in R&D is mainly attributed to the R&D costs of the Forte business, and to a lesser degree, increased employee-related costs. As a percentage of total revenues, R&D expense for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were approximately 13.3% and 14.6%, respectively.  



Our R&D efforts are focused on the continued evolution of our solutions that enable service providers worldwide to provide a more personalized customer experience while introducing new digital products and services. This includes the continued investment in our cloud-based solutions.  



Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Expense. SG&A expense for the first quarter of 2019 increased 13% to $45.9 million, from $40.6 million for the first quarter of 2018, with the increase primarily due to the SG&A costs related to Forte business. Our SG&A costs as a percentage of total revenues for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were approximately 18.8% and 20.2%, respectively, with the decrease reflective of the higher revenues for the period, mainly resulting from the Forte acquisition.   



Depreciation. Depreciation expense for the first quarter of 2019 increased 31% to $5.1 million, from $3.9 million for the first quarter of 2018. This increase can be primarily attributed to the increased level of capital expenditures we have made over the last twelve months on items such as technology, security, infrastructure, and modernization of equipment, and to a lesser degree, the depreciation expense from the acquired Business Ink and Forte assets. 



Operating Income.  Operating income for the first quarter of 2019 was $32.1 million, or 13.1% of total revenues, compared to $25.8 million, or 12.8% of total revenues for the first quarter of 2018. The increase in operating income is a result of the higher revenues generated in the first quarter of 2019, as reflected by our relatively consistent operating margin percentage.  



Loss on Extinguishment of Debt. In March 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement, and as a result, we incurred a loss of $0.8 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. 



Income Tax Provision. The effective income tax rates for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Our estimated full-year 2019 effective income tax rate is 26%.  



Liquidity  



Cash and Liquidity 



As of March 31, 2019, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $141.9 million, as compared to $162.9 million as of December 31, 2018. We generally invest our excess cash balances in low-risk, short-term investments to limit our exposure to market and credit risks.  



As part of our 2018 Credit Agreement, we have a $200 million senior secured revolving loan facility with a syndicate of financial institutions that expires in March 2023. As of March 31, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding on the 2018 Revolver. The 2018 Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants and financial covenants. As of March 31, 2019, and the date of this filing, we believe that we are in compliance with the provisions of the 2018 Credit Agreement.  



20 



Our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances as of the end of the indicated periods were located in the following geographical regions (in thousands):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 We generally have ready access to substantially all of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investment balances, but may face limitations on moving cash out of certain foreign jurisdictions due to currency controls. As of March 31, 2019, we had $3.0 million of cash restricted as to use primarily to collateralize outstanding letters of credit. 



Cash Flows from Operating Activities  



We calculate our cash flows from operating activities in accordance with U.S. GAAP, beginning with net income, adding back the impact of non-cash items or non-operating activity (e.g., depreciation, amortization, amortization of OID, impairments, gain/loss from debt extinguishments, deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation, etc.), and then factoring in the impact of changes in operating assets and liabilities. See our 2018 10-K for a description of the primary uses and sources of our cash flows from operating activities.  



Our 2019 and 2018 net cash flows from operating activities, broken out between operations and changes in operating assets and liabilities, for the indicated quarterly periods are as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cash flows from operating activities for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 reflect the negative impacts of the payment of the 2018 and 2017 year-end accrued employee incentive compensation in the first quarter subsequent to the year-end accrual for these items. Additionally, cash flows from operating activities for the first quarter of 2019 were negatively impacted by the timing around a certain recurring client payment at quarter-end. This amount was subsequently collected in April 2019. 



We believe the above table illustrates our ability to generate recurring quarterly cash flows from our operations, and the importance of managing our working capital items. Variations in our net cash provided by operating activities are generally related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities (related mostly to fluctuations in timing at quarter-end of client payments and changes in accrued expenses), and generally over longer periods of time, do not significantly impact our cash flows from operations. 



21 



Significant fluctuations in key operating assets and liabilities between 2019 and 2018 that impacted our cash flows from operating activities are as follows:  



Billed Trade Accounts Receivable 



Management of our billed accounts receivable is one of the primary factors in maintaining consistently strong quarterly cash flows from operating activities. Our billed trade accounts receivable balance includes significant billings for several non-revenue items (primarily postage, sales tax, and deferred revenue items). As a result, we evaluate our performance in collecting our accounts receivable through our calculation of days billings outstanding (“DBO”) rather than a typical days sales outstanding (“DSO”) calculation.  



Our gross and net billed trade accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts receivable (“Allowance”) as of the end of the indicated quarterly periods, and the related DBOs for the quarters then ended, are as follows (in thousands, except DBOs):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of March 31, 2019, approximately 95% of our billed accounts receivable balance is less than 60 days past due. 



As a global provider of software and professional services, a portion of our accounts receivable balance relates to clients outside the U.S. This diversity in the geographic composition of our client base may adversely impact our DBOs as longer billing cycles (i.e., billing terms and cash collection cycles) are an inherent characteristic of international software and professional services transactions. For example, our ability to bill (i.e., send an invoice) and collect arrangement fees may be dependent upon, among other things: (i) the completion of various client administrative matters, local country billing protocols and processes (including local cultural differences), and/or non-client administrative matters; (ii) us meeting certain contractual invoicing milestones; or (iii) the overall project status in certain situations in which we act as a subcontractor to another vendor on a project.  



Accrued Employee Compensation 



Accrued employee compensation decreased $9.6 million to $51.5 million as of March 31, 2019, from $61.1 million as of December 31, 2018, due primarily to the payment of the 2018 employee incentive compensation that was fully accrued at December 31, 2018, offset to a certain degree by the accrual for the 2019 employee incentive compensation.  



Cash Flows from Investing Activities 



Our typical investing activities consist of purchases/sales of short-term investments and purchases of property and equipment, which are discussed below. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2018 we acquired Business Ink for approximately $70 million ($68.6 million, net of cash acquired), and in the first quarter of 2019, as discussed in Note 2 to our Financial Statements, made an additional investment in a payment technology and services company for $4.0 million, which is included in our cash flows from investing activities. 



Purchases/Sales of Short-term Investments. For the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, we purchased $14.2 million and $15.1 million, respectively, and sold (or had mature) $19.6 million and $79.5 million, respectively, of short-term investments. We continually evaluate the appropriate mix of our investment of excess cash balances between cash equivalents and short-term investments in order to maximize our investment returns and will likely purchase and sell additional short-term investments in the future. 



Software, Property and Equipment. Our capital expenditures for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 for software, property and equipment were $8.3 million and $12.2 million, respectively, and consisted principally of investments in: (i) statement production equipment; (ii) computer hardware, software, and related equipment; and (iii) facilities and internal infrastructure items. 



22 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities  



Our financing activities typically consist of activities associated with our common stock and our long-term debt.  



Cash Dividends Paid on Common Stock. During the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, the Board approved dividend payments totaling $7.4 million and $7.1 million, respectively, of which $7.6 million and $7.4 million, respectively, had been paid through March 31, 2019 and 2018 (with the differences attributed to unvested incentive shares that are paid upon vesting).  



Repurchase of Common Stock. During the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, we repurchased 0.2 million and 0.1 million shares of our common stock, respectively, under the guidelines of our Stock Repurchase Program for $9.3 million and $5.7 million, respectively.  



Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million shares of our common stock in both periods, for $4.1 million and $6.2 million, respectively, in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans. 



Long-term Debt.  During the first quarter of 2019, we made principal repayments of $1.9 million.  



During the first quarter of 2018, we refinanced our 2015 Credit Agreement and as a result, we repaid the outstanding principal balance of $120.0 million and borrowed $150.0 million under the 2018 Credit Agreement, resulting in a net increase of available cash of $30.0 million. As part of the refinancing, we paid $1.4 million of deferred financing costs.  



See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion of our long-term debt. 



Capital Resources  



The following are the key items to consider in assessing our sources and uses of capital resources:  



Current Sources of Capital Resources.  



•  



Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments. As of March 31, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments of $141.9 million, of which approximately 62% is in U.S. Dollars and held in the U.S. We have $3.0 million of restricted cash, used primarily to collateralize outstanding letters of credit. For the remainder of the monies denominated in foreign currencies and/or located outside the U.S., we do not anticipate any material amounts being unavailable for use in running our business. 



•  



Operating Cash Flows. As described in the Liquidity section above, we believe we have the ability to generate strong cash flows to fund our operating activities and act as a source of funds for our capital resource needs.  



•  



Revolving Credit Facility. As of March 31, 2019, we had a $200 million revolving loan facility (2018 Revolver). As of March 31, 2019, we had no borrowing outstanding on our 2018 Revolver and had the entire $200 million available to us. Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements. 



Uses/Potential Uses of Capital Resources. Below are the key items to consider in assessing our uses/potential uses of capital resources:  



•  



Common Stock Repurchases. We have made repurchases of our common stock in the past under our Stock Repurchase Program. As of March 31, 2019, we had 5.3 million shares authorized for repurchase remaining under our Stock Repurchase Program. Our 2018 Credit Agreement places certain limitations on our ability to repurchase our common stock.  



In September 2018, we announced an increase in our planned share repurchases of up to $150 million under our Stock Repurchase Program over the next three years. Under our Stock Repurchase Program, we may repurchase shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including through an accelerated stock repurchase plan or under a SEC Rule 10b5-1 plan. The actual timing and amount of future share repurchases will be dependent on then current market conditions and other business-related factors over the next three years. Our common stock repurchases are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to our Financial Statements. 



During the first quarter of 2019, we repurchased 0.2 million shares of our common stock for $9.3 million (weighted-average price of $37.37 per share).  



23 



Outside of our Stock Repurchase Program, during the first quarter of 2019, we repurchased from our employees and then cancelled 0.1 million shares of our common stock for $4.1 million in connection with minimum tax withholding requirements resulting from the vesting of restricted common stock under our stock incentive plans. 



•  



Cash Dividends. During the first quarter of 2019, the Board declared dividends totaling $7.4 million. Going forward, we expect to pay cash dividends each year in March, June, September, and December, with the amount and timing subject to the Board’s approval. 



•  



Acquisition. On October 1, 2018, we acquired Forte, a leading provider of advanced payment solutions headquartered in Allen, Texas for a purchase price of approximately $93 million, (approximately $85 million, excluding cash acquired), and held back approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings. The purchase agreement includes provisions for $18.8 million of potential future earn-out payments over a four-year measurement period. The earn-out payments are tied to performance-based goals and continued employment by the eligible recipients.  



As part of our growth strategy, we are continually evaluating potential business and/or asset acquisitions and investments in market share expansion with our existing and potential new clients.  



•  



Equity Method Investment. In the first quarter of 2019, we made an additional $4 million investment in a payment technology and services company that enables omni-channel digital payments in Latin America. As of March 31, 2019, we held an 8% noncontrolling interest with a carrying value of $6.7 million. 



•  



Capital Expenditures. During the first quarter of 2019, we spent $8.3 million on capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2019, we had committed to purchase approximately $6.5 million of equipment.  



•  



Stock Warrants. In 2014, we issued Stock Warrants with an exercise price of $26.68 per warrant to Comcast as an incentive for Comcast to convert new customer accounts to ACP. Once vested, Comcast may exercise the Stock Warrants and elect either physical delivery of common shares or net share settlement (cashless exercise). Alternatively, the exercise of the Stock Warrants may be settled with cash based solely on our approval, or if Comcast were to beneficially own or control in excess of 19.99% of our common stock or voting of the Company. As of March 31, 2019, approximately 1.4 million Stock Warrants are outstanding, of which 0.4 million are vested. 



The Stock Warrants are discussed in more detail in Note 8 to our Financial Statements.  



•  



Long-Term Debt. As of March 31, 2019, our long-term debt consisted of the following: (i) 2016 Convertible Notes with a par value of $230.0 million; and (ii) 2018 Credit Agreement term loan borrowings of $142.5 million.  



2016 Convertible Notes 



During the next twelve months, there are no scheduled conversion triggers on our 2016 Convertible Notes. As a result, we expect our required debt service cash outlay during the next twelve months for the 2016 Convertible Notes to be limited to interest payments of $9.8 million. 



2018 Credit Agreement 



Our 2018 Credit Agreement mandatory repayments and the cash interest expense (based upon current interest rates) for the next twelve months is $7.5 million, and $6.3 million, respectively. We have the ability to make prepayments on our 2018 Credit Agreement without penalty.  



Our long-term debt obligations are discussed in more detail in Note 4 to our Financial Statements.  



In summary, we expect to continue to have material needs for capital resources going forward, as noted above. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and our 2018 Revolver, together with cash expected to be generated in the future from our current operating activities, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated capital resource requirements for at least the next twelve months. We also believe we could obtain additional capital through other debt sources which may be available to us if deemed appropriate. 



24 



