Item 4. Controls and Procedures  



(a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures  



As required by Rule 13a-15(b), our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this report of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.  



 (b) Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  



As required by Rule 13a-15(d), our management, including the CEO and CFO, also conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, as defined by Rule 13a-15(f), to determine whether any changes occurred during the quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. On January 1, 2019, we adopted ASC 842, Leases, which required us to makes changes to our policies, update our processes, and modify existing internal controls over financial reporting. Other than these changes to support the implementation of ASC 842, our CEO and CFO concluded that there were no other changes during the quarter covered by this report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 



26 



CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  



None  



Item 5. Other Information  



None  



Item 6. Exhibits  



The Exhibits filed or incorporated by reference herewith are as specified in the Exhibit Index.  



27 



CSG SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL, INC.  



INDEX TO EXHIBITS  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*  



Portions of the exhibit have been omitted pursuant to SEC rules regarding confidential information.  



28 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  



Dated: May 3, 2019  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



29
