Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 



Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. As of June 30, 2019, we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in interest rates, fluctuations and changes in the market value of our cash equivalents and short-term investments, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We have not historically entered into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  



Interest Rate Risk  



Long-Term Debt. The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.  



The interest rates on our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin. See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.  



A hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the June 30, 2019 adjusted LIBOR rate would not have had a material impact upon our results of operations.  



Market Risk 



Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments. Our cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $113.8 million and $139.3 million, respectively. Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments. Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks. We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.  



Our short-term investments as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $17.7 million and $23.6 million, respectively. Currently, we utilize short-term investments as a means to invest our excess cash only in the U.S. The day-to-day management of our short-term investments is performed by a large financial institution in the U.S., using strict and formal investment guidelines approved by our Board. Under these guidelines, short-term investments are limited to certain acceptable investments with: (i) a maximum maturity; (ii) a maximum concentration and diversification; and (iii) a minimum acceptable credit quality. 



Settlement Assets. We are exposed to market risk associated with cash held on behalf of our clients related to our payment processing services. As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $88.6 million and $124.6 million, respectively, of cash collected on behalf of our clients which is held for an established holding period until settlement with the client. The holding period is generally one to four business days depending on the payment model and contractual terms with the client. During the holding period, cash is held in trust accounts with various major financial institutions in the U.S. in an amount equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount owed to our clients. These balances can significantly fluctuate between periods due to activity at the end of the period and the day in which the period ends. 



Long-Term Debt. The fair value of our convertible debt is exposed to market risk. We do not carry our convertible debt at fair value but present the fair value for disclosure purposes (see Note 2 to our Financial Statements). Generally, the fair value of our convertible debt is impacted by changes in interest rates and changes in the price and volatility of our common stock. As of June 30, 2019, the fair value of the 2016 Convertible Notes was estimated at $254.4 million, using quoted market prices.  



Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  



Due to foreign operations around the world, our balance sheet and income statement are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk due to the fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct business. While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.  



During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we generated approximately 88% of our revenues in U.S. dollars. We expect that, in the foreseeable future, we will continue to generate a very large percentage of our revenues in U.S. dollars.  



26 



As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the carrying amounts of our monetary assets and monetary liabilities on the books of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in currencies denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of those non-U.S. subsidiaries are as follows (in thousands, in U.S. dollar equivalents):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



A hypothetical adverse change of 10% in the June 30, 2019 exchange rates would not have had a material impact upon our results of operations based on the monetary assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2019.  



