Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)



(in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts)



The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes included under Item 1, as well as our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes and related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



Overview



CTS Corporation (“CTS”, “we”, “our” or “us”) is a leading designer and manufacturer of products that Sense, Connect and Move. We manufacture sensors, actuators, and electronic components in North America, Europe, and Asia, and provide engineered products to customers in the aerospace/defense, industrial, medical, telecommunications/IT, and transportation markets.



Results of Operations: Third Quarter 2018 versus Third Quarter 2017 



The following table highlights changes in significant components of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the quarters ended September 30, 2018, and September 30, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales were $118,859 in the third quarter of 2018, an increase of $12,616 or 11.9% from the third quarter of 2017. Sales to transportation markets increased $6,613 or 9.6%. Other sales increased $6,003 or 15.9%. Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $375 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.



Gross margin as a percent of sales was 35.4% in the third quarter of 2018 compared to 35.3% in the third quarter of 2017. The improvement from savings related to product line transfers was partially offset by tariff and material cost increases.



Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $18,450 or 15.5% of sales in the third quarter of 2018 versus $15,915 or 15.0% of sales in the third quarter of 2017. The 2018 SG&A costs include higher stock-based compensation and non-cash pension expense versus income in 2017.



Research and development expenses were $6,517 or 5.5% of sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to $6,380 or 6.0% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2017. Research and development expenses are focused on expanded applications of existing products and new product development as well as current product and process enhancements.



27

Restructuring charges were $997 or 0.8% of sales in the third quarter of 2018. The charges were mainly for building and equipment relocation, severance, and travel costs related to the restructuring of certain operations as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring charges were $1,435 or 1.4% of sales in the third quarter of 2017.



The loss on sale of assets in the third quarter of 2017 was driven by the sale of vacant land adjacent to our Hopkinton, Massachusetts facility in September 2017.



Operating earnings were $16,118 or 13.6% of sales in the third quarter of 2018 compared to operating earnings of $13,111 or 12.3% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2017.



Other income and expense items are summarized in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest expense decreased mainly as a result of the reduction in debt year-over-year. Interest income increased due to higher interest rates. Other expense in the third quarter of 2018 was principally driven by foreign currency translation losses, mainly due to the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the quarter.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective income tax rate was 28.9% and 31.1% in the third quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was primarily attributed to a reduction in our statutory tax rate as a result of the 2017 Tax and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), which was partially offset by tax expense related to the one-time cash distribution from Taiwan and higher non-deductible currency losses. 



28

Results of Operations: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 versus Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 



The following table highlights changes in significant components of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and September 30, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales were $350,410 in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, an increase of $38,327 or 12.3% from the nine months ended September 30, 2017. Sales to transportation markets increased $19,710 or 9.7%. Other sales increased $18,617 or 17.2%. The Noliac acquisition, which was completed in May 2017, added $6,952 in sales in the nine months of 2018 and $4,097 in the first nine months of 2017. Changes in foreign exchange rates increased sales by $4,118 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar depreciating compared to the Euro and Chinese Renminbi and relating mostly to sales of transportation products.



Gross margin as a percent of sales was 34.9% in the nine months of 2018 compared to 34.5% in the first nine months of 2017. Major drivers for the improvement include savings related to product line transfers and favorable foreign exchange impact, partially offset by tariff and material cost increases. The first nine months of 2017 also included costs related to certain production rework issues resolved in the first quarter of 2017.



Selling, general and administrative expenses were $55,441 or 15.7% of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 versus $46,970 or 15.1% of sales in the comparable year-to-date period in 2017. The 2018 SG&A costs include a $950 environmental charge, $1,069 for tax projects, amortization of intangibles and other operating costs associated with our Noliac acquisition, higher stock-based compensation, and non-cash pension expense versus income in 2017. The environmental charge relates to soil remediation at one of our older facilities in Asia.



Research and development expenses were $19,500 or 5.6% of sales in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $18,432 or 5.9% of sales in the comparable prior year period. Research and development expenses are focused on expanded applications of existing products and new product development as well as current product and process enhancements. 



Restructuring charges were $3,364 or 1.0% of sales in the first nine months of 2018. The charges were mainly for building and equipment relocation, severance, and travel costs related to the restructuring of certain operations as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring charges were $2,942 or 0.9% of sales in the first nine months of 2017.



The loss on sale of assets in 2017 was driven by the sale of vacant land adjacent to our Hopkinton, Massachusetts facility.



29

Other income and expense items are summarized in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest expense decreased in the first nine months of 2018 versus the same period of 2017 mainly as a result of the reduction in debt year-over-year. Interest income increased due to higher interest rates. Other expense in the first nine months of 2018 was principally driven by foreign currency translation losses, mainly due to the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the first nine months of the year.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective income tax rate was 29.7% and 30.0% in the first nine months of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was primarily attributed to the previously mentioned statutory tax rate reduction resulting from the Tax Act, which was partially offset by tax expense related to the one-time cash distribution from Taiwan and higher non-deductible currency losses.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Cash and cash equivalents were $103,754 at September 30, 2018, and $113,572 at December 31, 2017, of which $87,557 and $112,531, respectively, were held outside the United States. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $9,818 was primarily driven by capital expenditures of $20,800 and net long-term debt payments of $26,300, which were partially offset by cash generated from operating activities of $42,560. Total long-term debt was $50,000 as of September 30, 2018 and $76,300 as of December 31, 2017. Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, defined as long-term debt as a percentage of total debt and shareholders' equity, was 11.7% at September 30, 2018, compared to 18.2% at December 31, 2017.



Working capital increased by $2,141 during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, primarily due to the increases in accounts receivable and inventory, which were partially offset by the decrease in cash and increase in accounts payable.



Cash Flows from Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operating activities was $42,560 during the first nine months of 2018. Components of net cash provided by operating activities included net earnings of $28,968, depreciation and amortization expense of $16,349, other net non-cash items of $7,162, and a net cash outflow from changes in assets and liabilities of $9,919.



Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities for the first nine months of 2018 was $20,799, driven almost entirely by capital expenditures.



Cash Flows from Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities for the first nine months of 2018 was $31,695. These cash outflows were the result of net long-term debt payments of $26,300, dividend payments of $3,962, and taxes paid on behalf of equity award participants in the amount of $1,433.



30

Capital Resources



Long‑term debt was comprised of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On August 10, 2015, we entered into a five-year credit agreement (“Revolving Credit Facility”) with a group of banks in order to support our financing needs. The Revolving Credit Facility originally provided for a credit line of $200,000. On May 23, 2016, we requested and received a $100,000 increase in the aggregate revolving credit commitments under the existing credit agreement, which increased the credit line from $200,000 to $300,000. 



The Revolving Credit Facility requires, among other things, that CTS comply with a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Failure to comply with these covenants could reduce the borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at September 30, 2018. 



We use interest rate swaps to convert the Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate. In the second quarter of 2012, we entered into four separate interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017. In the third quarter of 2012, we entered into four additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $25,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017. In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three additional forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.



In general, other than in Canada and the U.K., it has been our historical practice to permanently reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations. However, as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act"), we can repatriate our cumulative undistributed foreign earnings to the U.S. when needed with minimal U.S. income tax consequences other than the one-time deemed repatriation charge. We will continue to evaluate whether to repatriate all or a portion of the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings based on our business needs. We are still evaluating whether to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion in light of the Act and consider that conclusion to be incomplete under guidance issued by SAB 118. If we subsequently change our assertion during the measurement period, we will account for the change in assertion as a change in estimate related to the enactment of the Act.



We have historically funded our capital and operating needs primarily through cash flows from operating activities, supported by available credit under our Revolving Credit Facility. We believe that cash flows from operating activities and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may choose to pursue additional equity and debt financing to provide additional liquidity or to fund acquisitions.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of CTS under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available.



Our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and evaluating our reported financial results.



31

Revenue Recognition



We recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled by applying the following five-step process specified in Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") Topic 606:



•Identify the contract(s) with a customer



•Identify the performance obligations



•Determine the transaction price



•Allocate the transaction price



•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met



Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract. We recognize revenue when (or as) the performance obligation has been satisfied after considering the impact of variable consideration and other factors that may affect the transaction price. Differences between the amount of revenue recognized and the amount invoiced, collected from, or paid to our customers are recognized as contract assets or liabilities. Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable. 



Product Warranties



Provisions for estimated warranty expenses related to our automotive products are made at the time products are sold. These estimates are established using a quoted industry rate. We adjust our warranty reserve for any known or anticipated warranty claims as new information becomes available. We evaluate our warranty obligations at least quarterly and adjust our accruals if it is probable that future costs will be different than our current reserve. 



Accounts Receivable



We have standardized credit granting and review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including:



•Credit reviews of all new customer accounts,



•Ongoing credit evaluations of current customers,



•Credit limits and payment terms based on available credit information,



•Adjustments to credit limits based upon payment history and the customer's current credit worthiness,



•An active collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to the corporate financial officers, and;



•Limited credit insurance on the majority of our international receivables.



We reserve for estimated credit losses based on historical experience and specific customer collection issues. Over the last three years, accounts receivable reserves have been approximately 0.2% to 0.7% of total accounts receivable. We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio. While credit losses have historically been within expectations and the reserves established, we cannot guarantee that our credit loss experience will continue to be consistent with historical experience.



Inventories



We value our inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method, or net realizable value. We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production requirements.



Over the last three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories have ranged from 11.2% to 20.1% of gross inventory. We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the inventories.



Retirement Plans



Actuarial assumptions are used in determining pension income and expense and our pension benefit obligation. We utilize actuaries from consulting companies in each applicable country to develop our discount rates that match high-quality bonds currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefit in order to provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due. After considering the recommendations of our actuaries, we have assumed a discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and a rate of compensation increase in determining our annual pension income and expense and the projected benefit obligation. During the fourth quarter of each year, we review our actuarial assumptions in light of current economic factors to determine if the assumptions need to be adjusted. Changes in the actuarial assumptions could have a material effect on our results of operations.



32

Valuation of Goodwill



Goodwill of a reporting unit is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, the following:



•Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value,



•Significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate,



•Adverse action or assessment by a regulator,



•Unanticipated competition,



•More-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of,



•Testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit, and



•Allocation of a portion of goodwill to a business to be disposed.



If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform an impairment test. The test involves comparing the fair values of our reporting units with their carrying values. We recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, but only to the extent of goodwill recognized. 



We generally determine the fair value of our reporting units using two valuation methods: "Income Approach — Discounted Cash Flow Method" and "Market Approach — Guideline Public Company Method". The approach defined below is based upon our last impairment test conducted as of October 1, 2017.



Under the "Income Approach — Discounted Cash Flow Method", the key assumptions include sales, cost of sales, and operating expense projections through the year 2021. These assumptions were determined by management utilizing our internal operating plan and assuming growth rates for revenues, operating expenses, and gross margin assumptions. The fourth key assumption under this approach is the discount rate, which is determined by looking at current risk-free rates, current market interest rates and the evaluation of risk premium relevant to the business segment. If any of our assumptions were to change or were incorrect, our fair value calculation may change, which could result in impairment.



Under the "Market Approach — Guideline Public Company Method", we identified eight publicly traded companies which we believe have significant relevant similarities to CTS. For these eight companies, we calculated a range of EBITDA multiples derived from the ratio of enterprise value to EBITDA and compared these multiples to the corresponding multiples for each of our reporting units. Similar to the income approach discussed above, sales, cost of sales, operating expenses and growth rates were key assumptions utilized in developing projected EBITDA levels for each of our reporting units. The market prices of CTS and the other guideline company's shares are also key assumptions as they are used to calculate enterprise value. The Market approach is based upon historical and current economic conditions, which might not reflect the long-term prospects or opportunities for our reporting units being evaluated.



The results of these two methods are weighted based upon management's determination. 



If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, we perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss, if any. This involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill.



There have not been any significant changes to our impairment testing methodology other than updates to the assumptions to reflect the current market environment. Based upon our latest assessment, we determined that our goodwill was not impaired as of October 1, 2017. We will monitor future results and will perform a test if indicators trigger an impairment review.



33

Valuation of Other Intangible and Long-Lived Assets



We evaluate the impairment of identifiable intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered that may trigger an impairment review consist of, but are not limited to, the following:



•Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value,



•Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results,



•Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business,



•Significant negative industry or economic trends.



If we believe that one or more indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset or asset group. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value. No indicators of impairment were identified as of September 30, 2018. 



Income Taxes



Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in the determination of the consolidated income tax expense.



Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets in the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. The assumptions about future taxable income require the use of significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses.



The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. ASC 740 states that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of its technical merits. We record unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740 and adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is available.



Our practice is to recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters as part of income tax expense.



We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside of the U.S., which is generally deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions except in Canada and the U.K. In 2015, as a result of changes in the business, the foreign earnings of these two subsidiaries were no longer permanently reinvested. Therefore, a provision for the expected taxes on repatriation of those earnings was recorded. However, as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we can repatriate our cumulative undistributed foreign earnings back to the U.S. when needed with minimal U.S. income tax consequences other than the one-time deemed repatriation charge. We will continue to evaluate whether to repatriate all or a portion of the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings based on expansion needs and as circumstances change. We are still evaluating whether to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion in light of the Act and consider that conclusion to be incomplete under guidance issued by SAB 118. If we subsequently change our assertion during the measurement period, we will account for the change in assertion as a change in estimate related to enactment of the Act.



34

Significant Customers



Our net sales to customers representing at least 10% of total net sales were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Forward‑Looking Statements



This document contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward‑looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward‑looking statements include, but are not limited to, any financial or other guidance, statements that reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and any other statements that are not based solely on historical fact. Forward‑looking statements are based on management’s expectations, certain assumptions and currently available information. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward‑looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on various assumptions as to future events, the occurrence of which necessarily are subject to uncertainties. These forward‑looking statements are made subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those presented in the forward‑looking statements. Examples of factors that may affect future operating results and financial condition include, but are not limited to: changes in the economy generally and in respect to the business in which CTS operates; unanticipated issues in integrating acquisitions; the results of actions to reposition our business; rapid technological change; general market conditions in the automotive, communications, and computer industries, as well as conditions in the industrial, defense and aerospace, and medical markets; reliance on key customers; unanticipated natural disasters or other events; the ability to protect our intellectual property; pricing pressures and demand for our products; unanticipated developments that could occur with respect to contingencies such as litigation and environmental matters as well as any product liability claims; and risks associated with our international operations, including trade and tariff barriers, exchange rates and political and geopolitical risks. Many of these and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in further detail in Item 1A. of CTS' Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. We undertake no obligation to publicly update our forward‑looking statements to reflect new information or events or circumstances that arise after the date hereof, including market or industry changes.



35

