Item 1. Financial Statements



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS - UNAUDITED



(In thousands of dollars, except per share amounts) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



3

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ‑ UNAUDITED



(In thousands of dollars) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



4

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In thousands of dollars)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



5

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ‑ UNAUDITED



(In thousands of dollars)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.



6

NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - UNAUDITED



(in thousands except for share and per share data)



March 31, 2018 



NOTE 1—Basis of Presentation



The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by CTS Corporation (“CTS” "we", "our", "us" or the "Company”), without audit, pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, notes thereto, and other information included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect, in the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring items) necessary for a fair statement, in all material respects, of the financial position and results of operations for the periods presented. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.



Change in Accounting Principle



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)". The guidance in this ASU affects any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets unless those contracts are within the scope of other standards (for example, insurance contracts or lease contracts). This guidance requires a company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration it expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.



Beginning in January 2018, CTS adopted the provisions of Topic 606 under the modified retrospective method, which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the date of adoption. This approach was applied to contracts not completed as of December 31, 2017. At date of adoption, there was no significant change to our past revenue recognition practices and therefore no adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.



Subsequent Events



We have evaluated subsequent events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements through the date the consolidated financial statements are issued.



7

NOTE 2 – Revenue Recognition



The core principle of Topic 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance provides a five-step process to achieve that core principle:



•Identify the contract(s) with a customer



•Identify the performance obligations



•Determine the transaction price



•Allocate the transaction price



•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met



We recognize revenue when the performance obligations specified in our contracts have been satisfied, after considering the impact of variable consideration and other factors that may affect the transaction price. Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract. We usually expect payment within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer. None of our contracts as of March 31, 2018, contained a significant financing component. Differences between the amount of revenue recognized and the amount invoiced, collected from, or paid to our customers are recognized as contract assets or liabilities. Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable. 



To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the most likely amount method based on an analysis of historical experience and current facts and circumstances, which requires significant judgment. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. 



Contract Assets and Liabilities



Contract assets and liabilities included in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the three months period ended March 31, 2018, we recognized revenues of $131 that were included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the period.



The increase in contract liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 is primarily due to net increases in estimated future discounts and price concessions, offset by net settlements of products sold with rights of return.



8

Disaggregated Revenue



The following table presents revenues disaggregated by the major markets we serve:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 3 – Accounts Receivable 



The components of accounts receivable are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 4 – Inventories 



Inventories consist of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 5 – Property, Plant and Equipment



Property, plant and equipment is comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



9

NOTE 6 – Retirement Plans



Pension Plans



Net pension expense (income) for our domestic and foreign plans was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of net pension expense (income) for our domestic and foreign plans include the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) Expected return on plan assets is net of expected investment expenses and certain administrative expenses.



Other Post-retirement Benefit Plan



Net post-retirement expense for our other post-retirement plan includes the following components:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10

NOTE 7 – Other Intangible Assets



Intangible assets consist of the following components:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Remaining amortization expense for other intangible assets as of March 31, 2018 is as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NOTE 8 – Costs Associated with Exit and Restructuring Activities



Costs associated with exit and restructuring activities are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a separate component of Operating earnings. 



Total restructuring charges, all related to the June 2016 Plan described below, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



11

In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility by the end of 2018 and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan"). Additional organizational changes will also occur in various other locations. During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan. The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which will be consolidated into a single facility. The amendment does not impact any additional employees. The total cost of the plan is expected to be approximately $13,400 and will impact approximately 230 employees. The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $1,279 at March 31, 2018, and $1,460 at December 31, 2017. Additional costs related to line movements, equipment charges, and other costs will be expensed as incurred. 



The following table displays the planned restructuring charges associated with the June 2016 Plan as well as a summary of the actual costs incurred through March 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In April 2014, we announced plans to restructure our operations and consolidate our Canadian operations into other existing facilities as part of our overall plan to simplify its business model and rationalize our global footprint (“April 2014 Plan”). These restructuring actions, which were completed during 2015, impacted approximately 120 positions. The remaining restructuring liability related to the April 2014 Plan was $445 at March 31, 2018, and $453 at December 31, 2017. 



The following table displays the restructuring liability activity for all plans for the three months ended March 31, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Other activity includes the effects of currency translation and other charges that do not flow through restructuring expense.



NOTE 9 – Accrued Liabilities



The components of accrued liabilities are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12

NOTE 10 – Contingencies



Certain processes in the manufacture of our current and past products create by-products classified as hazardous waste. We have been notified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, state environmental agencies, and in some cases, groups of potentially responsible parties, that we may be potentially liable for environmental contamination at several sites currently and formerly owned or operated by us. Some sites, such as Asheville, North Carolina and Mountain View, California, are designated National Priorities List sites under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund program. We reserve for probable remediation activities and for claims and proceedings against us with respect to other environmental matters. We record reserves on an undiscounted basis. In the opinion of management, based upon presently available information relating to such matters, adequate provision for probable and estimable costs have been recorded. We do not have any known environmental obligations where a loss is probable or reasonably possible of occurring for which we do not have a reserve, nor do we have any amounts for which we have not reserved because the amount of the loss cannot be reasonably estimated. Due to the inherent nature of environmental obligations, we cannot provide assurance that our ultimate environmental liability will not materially exceed the amount of its current reserve. Our reserve and disclosures will be adjusted accordingly if additional information becomes available in the future.



A roll forward of remediation reserves included in accrued liabilities on the balance sheet is comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Unrelated to the environmental claims described above, certain other claims are pending against us with respect to matters arising in the ordinary conduct of our business. Although the ultimate outcome of any potential litigation resulting from these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, and some may be disposed of unfavorably to us, we believe that adequate provision for anticipated costs have been established based upon all presently available information. Except as noted herein, we do not believe we have any pending loss contingencies that are probable or reasonably possible of having a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.



NOTE 11 - Debt



Long-term debt was comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On August 10, 2015, we entered into a new five-year credit agreement (“Revolving Credit Facility”) with a group of banks in order to support our financing needs. The Revolving Credit Facility originally provided for a credit line of $200,000. On May 23, 2016, we requested and received a $100,000 increase in the aggregate revolving credit commitments under the existing credit agreement, which increased the credit line from $200,000 to $300,000. 



The Revolving Credit Facility includes a swing line sublimit of $15,000 and a letter of credit sublimit of $10,000. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus the applicable margin for base rate loans or LIBOR plus the applicable margin for LIBOR loans. We also pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility. The commitment fee ranges from 0.20% to 0.40% based on the our total leverage ratio. 



The Revolving Credit Facility requires, among other things, that we comply with a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Failure to comply with these covenants could reduce the borrowing availability under the Revolving 



13

Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at March 31, 2018. The Revolving Credit Facility requires that we deliver quarterly financial statements, annual financial statements, auditor certifications, and compliance certificates within a specified number of days after the end of a quarter and year. Additionally, the Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictions limiting our ability to: dispose of assets; incur certain additional debt; repay other debt or amend subordinated debt instruments; create liens on assets; make investments, loans or advances; make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations; engage in certain transactions with our subsidiaries and affiliates; and make stock repurchases and dividend payments. Interest rates on the Revolving Credit Facility fluctuate based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate and the Company’s quarterly total leverage ratio. 



We have debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt that are being amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the debt. These costs are included in interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Amortization expense was approximately $46 for both the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017. 



Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments 



Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We selectively use derivative financial instruments including foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to these risks. 



The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts. We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements. 



Foreign Currency Hedges



In January of 2016, we began using forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs. The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. At least quarterly, we assess the effectiveness of these hedging relationships based on the total change in their fair value using regression analysis. The effective portion of derivative gains and losses are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged transaction affects earnings upon settlement, at which time they are reclassified to cost of goods sold or net sales. Ineffectiveness is recorded in other income (expense) in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. If it becomes probable that an anticipated transaction that is hedged will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period, we reclassify the gains or losses related to that hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to other income (expense). 



We continue to monitor the Company’s overall currency exposure and may elect to add cash flow hedges in the future. At March 31, 2018, we had a net unrealized gain of $37 in accumulated other comprehensive loss, of which $34 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months. At March 31, 2017 we had a net unrealized gain of $486 in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $25.2 million at March 31, 2018.



Interest Rate Swaps



We use interest rate swaps to convert the revolving credit facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate. In the second quarter of 2012, CTS entered into four separate interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017. In the third quarter of 2012, we entered into four additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $25,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017. In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.



These swaps are treated as cash flow hedges and consequently, the changes in fair value were recorded in other comprehensive income (loss). The estimated net amount of the existing gains or losses that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) that is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is approximately $424. 



14

The location and fair values of derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2018, are shown in the following table: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company has elected to net its foreign currency derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet in accordance with ASC 210-20 (Balance Sheet, Offsetting). On a gross basis, there were foreign currency derivative assets of $351 and foreign currency derivative liabilities of $317.



The effect of derivative instruments on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings is as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 13 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income



Shareholders’ equity includes certain items classified as accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (“AOCI”) in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, including:



Unrealized gains (losses) on hedges relate to interest rate swaps to convert the revolving credit facility's variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts used to hedge our exposure to changes in exchange rates affecting certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings. Further information related to CTS’ derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.



Unrealized gains (losses) on pension obligations are deferred from income statement recognition until the gains or losses are realized. Amounts reclassified to income from AOCI are included in net periodic pension income / (expense). Further information related to our pension obligations is included in Note 6 – Retirement Plans.



Cumulative translation adjustments relate to our non-U.S. subsidiary companies that have designated a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates. This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive (loss) income. 



15

Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses. Transaction gains for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 were $1,996 and $395, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.



The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the three months ended March 31, 2017, are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



16

NOTE 14 – Shareholders’ Equity



Share count and par value data related to shareholders’ equity are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



No common stock repurchases were made during the three months ended March 31, 2018. Through March 31, 2018, we had purchased an aggregate of $7,446 under a previously board-authorized share repurchase plan allowing for up to $25,000 in stock repurchases. Approximately $17,554 is available for future purchases.



A roll-forward of common shares outstanding is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Certain potentially dilutive restricted stock units are excluded from diluted earning per share because they are anti-dilutive. The number of awards that were anti-dilutive at March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 were 78,317 and 88,592, respectively.



NOTE 15 - Stock-Based Compensation



At March 31, 2018, we had four active stock-based compensation plans: the Nonemployee Directors’ Stock Retirement Plan (“Directors’ Plan”), the 2004 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2004 Plan”), the 2009 Omnibus Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (“2009 Plan”), and the 2014 Performance & Incentive Plan (“2014 Plan”). Future grants can only be made under the 2014 Plan.



17

The following table summarizes the compensation expense included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings related to stock-based compensation plans:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested RSUs by type and the weighted-average period in which the expense is to be recognized:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We recognize expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in substance, multiple awards.



The following table summarizes the status of these plans as of March 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Stock Options



We have no stock options exercisable or outstanding as of March 31, 2018, other than the performance-based stock options described below. 



Performance-Based Stock Options



During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 295,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures. The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term. We have not recognized any expense on these Performance-Based Option Awards for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, since the revenue target was not deemed likely to be attained based on our current forecast.



18

Service-Based Restricted Stock Units



The following table summarizes the service-based RSU activity as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Performance and Market-Based Restricted Stock Units



The following table summarizes the performance and market-based RSU activity as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at March 31, 2018. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units



Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests. These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation. Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period. Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 we had 17,361 and 14,082 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, liabilities of $127 and $241, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.



19

NOTE 16 — Fair Value Measurements



We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 



The table below summarizes our financial assets that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The table below summarizes the financial assets (liabilities) that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The fair value of our interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges were measured using standard valuation models using market-based observable inputs over the contractual terms, including forward yield curves, among others. There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.



The table below provides a reconciliation of the recurring financial assets (liabilities) for our derivative instruments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value. There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active. The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.



20

NOTE 17 — Income Taxes



The effective tax rates for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective income tax rate was 24.5% and 30.6% in the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was primarily attributed to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act"), which reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018. Our effective tax rate is higher than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to state taxes and foreign earnings that are taxed at higher rates. The tax rate in the first quarter of 2017 was lower than the U.S. statutory federal tax rate primarily due to lower foreign tax rates applicable on foreign earnings during that period.



We recognized the income tax effects of the Act in the audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 provides Securities and Exchange Commission staff guidance for the application of ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, which allows for a measurement period of up to one year from the enactment date for companies to complete their accounting for the U.S. tax law changes. As such, our 2017 financial results reflected a provisional amount of $6,267 that was recorded as deferred tax expense related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and a provisional amount of $11,734 that was recorded as current tax expense related to the transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. During the three-months ended March 31, 2018, we recognized measurement period adjustments that resulted in additional tax expense of $241. Any subsequent adjustments to our provisional estimated amounts will be recorded to tax expense in the quarter when the analysis is complete. 



For the calendar year beginning in 2018, we are subject to several new provisions of the Act including but not limited to the Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) tax. We have provisionally elected to account for any GILTI tax in the period in which it is incurred, and therefore have not provided any deferred tax impacts in our consolidated financial statements. For these computations, we have recorded an estimate in our effective tax rate for the three-months ended March 31, 2018. The company will continue to refine our estimates as additional guidance and information becomes available. 



In general, outside of Canada and the U.K., it has been our historical practice to permanently reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries into those operations. However, as a result of the Act, we can repatriate our cumulative undistributed foreign earnings to the U.S. as needed with minimal U.S. income tax consequences other than the one-time deemed repatriation tax. We will continue to evaluate whether to repatriate all or a portion of the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings based on expansion needs and as circumstances change. We are still evaluating whether to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion in light of the Act and consider that conclusion to be incomplete under guidance issued by SAB 118. If we subsequently change our assertion during the measurement period, we will account for the change in assertion as part of the Act enactment. 



Our continuing practice is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters as income tax expense. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, and 2017, we recorded $14 and $176, respectively of interest or penalties in income tax expense. 



21

NOTE 18 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements



ASU 2018-02 "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income"



In February 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2018-02 "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income". This ASU allows for a reclassification from accumulated comprehensive income to retained earnings for the stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in any interim period for which financial statements have not been issued. We are evaluating the impact this ASU may have on our financial statements.



ASU 2017-12 "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities"



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12 "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Target Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities". This ASU is meant to better align an entity's risk management activities and financial reporting for hedging relationships through changes to both the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted in any interim period after issuance. Any changes should be applied to all hedging relationships that exist at the date of adoption by applying a cumulative-effect adjustment related to eliminating the separate measurement of ineffectiveness to accumulated other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. Presentation and disclosure guidance is to be applied prospectively. We are still evaluating the impact this ASU may have on our financial statements. 



ASU 2017-07 "Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Post-retirement Benefit Cost"



In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07 "Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and net Periodic Post-retirement Benefit Cost". This ASU is meant to improve the presentation of net periodic pension and net periodic post-retirement benefits costs. Currently, pension and post-retirement benefit costs are comprised of several components reflecting the different aspects of an employer's financial arrangements and cost of providing benefits to employees. These components are aggregated for reporting, but prior guidance does not prescribe where the net cost should be presented in the income statement or capitalized in assets. This ASU requires disaggregation of the service cost component from other components of net benefit cost and provides explicit guidance on how to present the service cost and other components in the income statement, allowing only the service cost component of net benefit costs to be eligible for capitalization. These amendments should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of service cost and other components of net periodic pension and net post-retirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively for the capitalization of service cost and net periodic pension cost and periodic post-retirement benefit in assets. We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2018. It did not have a material impact on our financial statements because the service cost component of our pension cost is immaterial to our financial results on a prospective basis.



ASU 2017-04 "Intangibles -Goodwill and Other (Topic 305): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment"



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04 "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 305): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment". This ASU is meant to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill for impairment by eliminating the current Step 2 analysis in computing the implied fair value of goodwill. In addition, this ASU requires an entity to consider income tax effects on any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring an impairment loss, if applicable. Under this ASU, impairment is determined by comparing the reporting unit's fair value to the carrying value. This amendment is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We do not expect this guidance to have an impact on our financial statements.



ASU 2017-01 "Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of Business"



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01 "Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of Business". This ASU is meant to clarify the definition of a business to add guidance when determining when an acquisition or disposal should be accounted for as a sale of assets or business. This ASU provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets or activities should be classified as a business, providing more consistency in accounting for business or asset acquisitions. 



22

This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods. The ASU will be applied prospectively.



ASU 2016-16 "Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory"



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory". This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Currently, US GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party. This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs. This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



ASU 2016-15 "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments"



In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, "Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments". This ASU reduces the diversity in reporting of eight specific cash flow issues due to accounting guidance that is unclear or does not exist. The eight issues relate to certain debt activities, business combination activities, insurance settlements and other various activities. We adopted this ASU as of January 1, 2018 and it did not have an impact on our financial statements.



ASU 2016-02 "Leases (Topic 842)" 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)". This amendment created a new Topic under the accounting standards codification to account for the provisions of the ASU. This amendment is meant to provide transparency and to improve comparability between entities. The ASU requires companies to record an asset and liability on the balance sheet for leases that were formerly designated as operating leases as well as leases designated as financing leases. The provisions of the ASU predominately change the recognition of leases for lessees; the provisions do not substantially change the accounting for lessors. This ASU will supersede the provisions of Topic 840 Leases.



The liability recorded for a lease is meant to recognize the lease payments and the asset as a right to use the underlying asset for the lease, including optional periods if it is reasonably certain the option will be exercised. Recording of the liability should be based on the present value of the lease payments. If a lease term is less than twelve months, a company is allowed to elect not to record the asset and liability. Expense related to these leases are to be amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected term of the lease.



Additionally, the provisions of this ASU provide additional guidance on separating lease terms from maintenance and other type of provisions that provide a good or service, accounting for sale-leaseback provisions, and leveraged leases. 



Reporting in the cash flow statement remains virtually unchanged. Additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures are required.



These updates are required to be applied under a modified retrospective approach from the beginning of the earliest period presented in our financial statements upon adoption. The modified approach provides optional practical expedients that may be elected, which will allow companies to continue to account for leases under the previous guidance for leases that commenced prior to the effective date.



The provisions of this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those periods. Early adoption is allowed. We have not yet commenced the process for evaluating the impact of this ASU on our financial statements, and therefore it's impact has not yet been determined.



23

