Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)



(in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts)



The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes included under Item 1, as well as our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes and related Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.



Overview



CTS Corporation (“CTS”, “we”, “our” or “us”) is a leading designer and manufacturer of products that Sense, Connect and Move. We manufacture sensors, actuators, and electronic components in North America, Europe, and Asia, and provide engineered products to customers in the aerospace/defense, industrial, medical, telecommunications/IT, and transportation markets.



Results of Operations: Second Quarter 2019 versus Second Quarter 2018 



The following table highlights changes in significant components of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the quarters ended June 30, 2019, and June 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales were $120,684 in the second quarter of 2019, an increase of $2,663 or 2.3% from the second quarter of 2018. Sales to transportation markets increased $6,437 or 8.7%. Sales to other markets declined $3,774 or 8.6%. Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $1,861 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.



Gross margin as a percent of sales was 34.1% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 35.4% in the second quarter of 2018. Execution challenges in our ceramic foundry operation as well as material cost and wage increases were the main drivers for the decline. These were partially offset by savings related to the manufacturing transition from Elkhart, Indiana and other cost improvements.



Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $17,036 or 14.1% of sales in the second quarter of 2019 versus $19,621 or 16.6% of sales in the second quarter of 2018. The 2018 SG&A costs included a $950 environmental charge and $525 for professional fees related to tax projects. The remaining reduction in SG&A expenses was related to lower spending and timing of certain expenses.



27

Research and development expenses were $6,257 or 5.2% of sales in the second quarter of 2019 compared to $6,476 or 5.5% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2018. Research and development expenses are focused on expanded applications of existing products and new product development, as well as current product and process enhancements.



Restructuring charges were $911 or 0.8% of sales in the second quarter of 2019. The charges were mainly for building and equipment relocation, severance, and travel costs related to the restructuring of certain operations as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring charges were $1,172 or 1.0% of sales in the second quarter of 2018.



Operating earnings were $17,083 or 14.2% of sales in the second quarter of 2019 compared to operating earnings of $14,544 or 12.3% of sales in the second quarter of 2018.



Other income and expense items are summarized in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest expense decreased mainly as a result of the reduction in debt year-over-year and a reduction in interest related to interest rate swaps. Other expense in the second quarter of 2019 was principally driven by foreign currency translation losses, mainly due to the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the quarter, as well as pension expense.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective income tax rate was 25.1% and 37.7% in the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018, was primarily attributed to the 2018 withholding tax payment of $1,703 on a one-time distribution from Taiwan. 



28

Results of Operations: Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 versus Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales were $238,308 in the six months ended June 30, 2019, an increase of $6,757 or 2.9% from the six months ended June 30, 2018. Sales to transportation markets increased $10,973 or 7.4%. Sales to other markets declined $4,216 or 5.1%. Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $3,632 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.



Gross margin as a percent of sales was 34.3% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to 34.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Execution challenges in our ceramic foundry operation as well as material cost and wage increases were the main drivers for the decline. These were partially offset by savings related to the manufacturing transition from Elkhart, Indiana and other cost improvements.



Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $34,597 or 14.5% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2019 versus $36,993 or 16.0% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2018. The 2018 SG&A costs included a $950 environmental charge and $525 for professional fees related to tax projects. The remaining reduction in SG&A expenses was related to lower spending and timing of certain expenses.



Research and development expenses were $13,048 or 5.5% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to $12,983 or 5.6% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2018. Research and development expenses are focused on expanded applications of existing products and new product development, as well as current product and process enhancements.



Restructuring charges were $2,995 or 1.3% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2019. The charges were mainly for building and equipment relocation, severance, and travel costs related to the restructuring of certain operations as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan. Restructuring charges were $2,367 or 1.0% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2018.



Operating earnings were $31,300 or 13.1% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to operating earnings of $27,903 or 12.1% of sales in the six months ended June 30, 2018.



29

Other income and expense items are summarized in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest expense decreased mainly as a result of the reduction in debt year-over-year and a reduction in interest related to interest rate swaps. Other expense in the six months ended June 30, 2019 was principally driven by foreign currency translation losses, mainly due to the appreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the first six months of the year, as well as pension expense.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective income tax rate was 22.7% and 30.2% in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018, was primarily attributed to the 2018 withholding tax payment of $1,703 on a one-time distribution from Taiwan.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Cash and cash equivalents were $105,578 at June 30, 2019, and $100,933 at December 31, 2018, of which $95,093 and $96,762, respectively, were held outside the United States. The increase in cash and cash equivalents of $4,645 was primarily driven by cash generated from operating activities of $24,184, which was partially offset by capital expenditures of $9,430, treasury stock purchases of $5,002, taxes paid on behalf of equity award participants of $2,637, and dividends paid of $2,625. Total long-term debt was $50,000 as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018. Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, defined as long-term debt as a percentage of total debt and shareholders' equity, was 11.2% at June 30, 2019, compared to 11.7% at December 31, 2018.



Working capital increased by $18,738 during the six months ended June 30, 2019, primarily due to the increase in cash and accounts receivable and the decrease of accrued payroll and benefits and accrued liabilities.



Cash Flows from Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operating activities was $24,184 during the first six months of 2019. Components of net cash provided by operating activities included net earnings of $23,362, depreciation and amortization expense of $11,919, other net non-cash items of $6,090, and a net cash outflow from changes in assets and liabilities of $17,187.



Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities for the first six months of 2019 was $9,308, driven almost entirely by capital expenditures.



Cash Flows from Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities for the first six months of 2019 was $10,264. These cash outflows were the result of treasury stock purchases of $5,002, taxes paid on behalf of equity award participants in the amount of $2,637, and dividend payments of $2,625.



30

Capital Resources



Long‑term debt is comprised of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On February 12, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated five-year Credit Agreement with a group of banks (the "Credit Agreement") to extend the term of the facility. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility of $300,000, which may be increased by $150,000 at the request of the Company, subject to the administrative agent's approval. This new unsecured credit facility replaces the prior $300,000 unsecured credit facility, which would have expired August 10, 2020. Borrowings of $50,000 under the prior credit agreement were refinanced into the Credit Agreement. The prior agreement was terminated as of February 12, 2019.



The Revolving Credit Facility requires, among other things, that CTS comply with a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. Failure to comply with these covenants could reduce the borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all debt covenants at June 30, 2019. 



In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020. The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.



We have historically funded our capital and operating needs primarily through cash flows from operating activities, supported by available credit under our Revolving Credit Facility. We believe that cash flows from operating activities and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may choose to pursue additional equity and debt financing to provide additional liquidity or to fund acquisitions.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of CTS under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles require the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available.



Our estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts in our financial statements. The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and evaluating our reported financial results.



Revenue Recognition



We recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled by applying the following five-step process specified in Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") Topic 606:



•Identify the contract(s) with a customer



•Identify the performance obligations



•Determine the transaction price



•Allocate the transaction price



•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met



Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract. We recognize revenue when (or as) the performance obligation has been satisfied after considering the impact of variable consideration and other factors that may affect the transaction price. Differences between the amount of revenue 



31

recognized and the amount invoiced, collected from, or paid to our customers are recognized as contract assets or liabilities. Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable. 



Product Warranties



Provisions for estimated warranty expenses primarily related to our automotive products are made at the time products are sold. These estimates are established using a quoted industry rate. We adjust our warranty reserve for any known or anticipated warranty claims as new information becomes available. We evaluate our warranty obligations at least quarterly and adjust our accruals if it is probable that future costs will be different than our current reserve. Over the last three years, product warranty reserves have ranged from 0.5% to 2.4% of total sales. We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering all facts and circumstances surrounding any outstanding quality claims and our historical experience selling our products to our customers.



Accounts Receivable



We have standardized credit granting and review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including:



•Credit reviews of all new customer accounts,



•Ongoing credit evaluations of current customers,



•Credit limits and payment terms based on available credit information,



•Adjustments to credit limits based upon payment history and the customer's current credit worthiness,



•An active collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to the corporate financial officers, and;



•Limited credit insurance on the majority of our international receivables.



We reserve for estimated credit losses based on historical experience and specific customer collection issues. Over the last three years, accounts receivable reserves have been approximately 0.1% to 0.7% of total accounts receivable. We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio. While credit losses have historically been within expectations and the reserves established, we cannot guarantee that our credit loss experience will continue to be consistent with historical experience.



Inventories



We value our inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method, or net realizable value. We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production requirements.



Over the last three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories have ranged from 10.6% to 18.4% of gross inventory. We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the inventories.



Retirement Plans



Actuarial assumptions are used in determining pension income and expense and our pension benefit obligation. We utilize actuaries from consulting companies in each applicable country to develop our discount rates that match high-quality bonds currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefit in order to provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due. After considering the recommendations of our actuaries, we have assumed a discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and a rate of compensation increase in determining our annual pension income and expense and the projected benefit obligation. During the fourth quarter of each year, we review our actuarial assumptions in light of current economic factors to determine if the assumptions need to be adjusted. Changes in the actuarial assumptions could have a material effect on our results of operations.



Valuation of Goodwill



Goodwill of a reporting unit is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, the following:



•Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value,



•Significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate,



•Adverse action or assessment by a regulator,



•Unanticipated competition,



32

•More-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of,



•Testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit, and



•Allocation of a portion of goodwill to a business to be disposed.



If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform an impairment test. We have the option to perform a qualitative assessment (commonly referred to as "step zero" test) to determine whether further quantitative analysis for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is necessary. The qualitative assessment includes a review of macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, internal cost factors, and our own overall financial and share price performance, among other factors. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances we determine that it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we do not need to perform a quantitative analysis. 



If a quantitative assessment is required, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation methodologies. Determining fair value using a quantitative approach requires significant judgment, including judgments about projected revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital expenditures, and cash flows over a multi-year period. The discount rate applied to our forecasts of future cash flows is based on our estimated weighted average cost of capital. In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values, we evaluate our results against our market capitalization. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and impact the goodwill impairment assessment.



Our latest assessment was performed using a qualitative approach as of October 1, 2018, and we determined that it was likely that the fair values of our reporting units were more than their carrying amounts, and therefore no impairment charges were recorded. We will monitor future results and will perform a test if indicators trigger an impairment review.



Impairment of Other Intangible and Long-Lived Assets



We evaluate the impairment of identifiable intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered that may trigger an impairment review consist of, but are not limited to, the following:



•Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value,



•Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results,



•Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business,



•Significant negative industry or economic trends.



If we believe that one or more indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset or asset group. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 quarter we recognized impairment charges of $892 related to the June 2016 Restructuring Plan. No other indicators of impairment were identified during the quarter ended June 30, 2019. 



Income Taxes



Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management’s best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in the determination of consolidated income tax expense.



Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets in the jurisdiction from which they arise, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. The assumptions about future taxable income require the use of significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage our underlying businesses.



The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) No. 740 states that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of its technical merits. We record 



33

unrecognized tax benefits as liabilities in accordance with ASC 740 and adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available. Because of the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the unrecognized tax benefit liabilities. These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is available.



Our practice is to recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters as part of income tax expense.



Generally, outside of Canada and the United Kingdom, it has been our historical practice to permanently reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations. However, the 2017 Tax Cut and Jobs Act made significant changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings, requiring that all previously untaxed earnings and profits of our controlled foreign corporation be subjected to a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax. This transition tax substantially eliminated the basis difference that existed prior to the Tax Act. However, there are limited other taxes that continue to apply such as foreign withholding and certain state taxes. We completed an evaluation of our indefinite reinvestment assertion as a result of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act during the fourth quarter of 2018 and decided not to reinvest the current year earnings of our primary operations, except for in the Czech Republic, Denmark, India, Mexico and Taiwan. We intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the earnings in these non-U.S. subsidiaries.



Significant Customers



Our net sales to customers representing at least 10% of total net sales is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Forward‑Looking Statements



This document contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward‑looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward‑looking statements include, but are not limited to, any financial or other guidance, statements that reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events, and any other statements that are not based solely on historical fact. Forward‑looking statements are based on management’s expectations, certain assumptions and currently available information. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward‑looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on various assumptions as to future events, the occurrence of which necessarily are subject to uncertainties. These forward‑looking statements are made subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those presented in the forward‑looking statements. Examples of factors that may affect future operating results and financial condition include, but are not limited to: changes in the economy generally and in respect to the business in which CTS operates; unanticipated issues in integrating acquisitions; the results of actions to reposition our business; rapid technological change; general market conditions in the automotive, communications, and computer industries, as well as conditions in the industrial, defense and aerospace, and medical markets; reliance on key customers; unanticipated natural disasters or other events; the ability to protect our intellectual property; pricing pressures and demand for our products; unanticipated developments that could occur with respect to contingencies such as litigation and environmental matters as well as any product liability claims; and risks associated with our international operations, including trade and tariff barriers, exchange rates and political and geopolitical risks. Many of these and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in further detail in Item 1A. of CTS' Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018. We undertake no obligation to publicly update our forward‑looking statements to reflect new information or events or circumstances that arise after the date hereof, including market or industry changes.



34

