PART II-OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our Annual Report and in this Quarterly Report, any of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, and/or future results. Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. The risk factors in our Annual Report are not repeated in this Quarterly Report, unless the underlying risks have materially changed. The risks described in our Annual Report and this Quarterly Report are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or future results.



The announcement and pending agreement to be acquired by Infineon may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and stock price.



Uncertainty about the effect of our pending acquisition (the "Merger") by Infineon Technologies AG ("Infineon") on our employees, partners, customers, and other third parties may disrupt our sales and marketing or other key business activities and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and stock price. We are subject to risks in connection with the announcement and pendency of the Merger including the following:



•the uncertainty of the pending acquisition may cause our existing customers to investigate alternatives and/or switch to alternate suppliers;



•other parties with whom we have business relationships may experience uncertainty as to the future of those relationships and may delay or defer certain business decisions, seek alternative relationships with third parties, or seek to alter their present business relationships with us; 



•parties with whom we otherwise may have sought to establish business relationships may seek alternative relationships with third parties instead of us;



•current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles following the Merger and we might not be able to attract, recruit, retain, and motivate key talent, including senior leaders, to the same extent that we have previously been able to attract, recruit, retain, and motivate employees; 



•legal proceedings challenging the Merger may divert management time and attention, may require us to incur significant attorneys fees and other expenses, and may result in unfavorable outcomes that could delay or prevent the Merger from being completed; 



•restrictions in the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 3, 2019, by and among Infineon, its subsidiary IFX Merger Sub, Inc., and the Company (the "Merger Agreement") may prevent us from pursuing opportunities without Infineon’s approval or taking other actions that we might have undertaken in the absence of the Merger, and may affect our ability to execute our business strategies, respond effectively to competitive pressures and industry developments, and attain our financial and other goals (including with respect to our current and prospective employees and parties with whom we have or seek to establish business relationships);



•restrictions in the Merger Agreement on our ability to pursue alternative transactions to the Merger could, in specified circumstances, require us to pay Infineon a termination fee of $330 million, and could otherwise discourage or deter a third party from considering or proposing an alternative transaction with us; and



•we have diverted, and will continue to divert, significant management and other internal resources towards the completion of the Merger. 



48



Any failure of our pending acquisition by Infineon to be completed may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price.



We face a risk that the proposed acquisition of the Company by Infineon might not be completed. Each of our and Infineon’s obligations to complete the Merger is subject to a number of conditions specified in the Merger Agreement, including, among others: (i) the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Cypress common stock; (ii) the absence of any law prohibiting or order preventing the completion of the Merger; (iii) the receipt of clearance from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, the receipt of any applicable clearance or affirmative approval by the Anti-Monopoly Bureau of the State Administration for Market Regulation in the People’s Republic of China, approval from the European Commission under the European Merger Regulation, and the expiration of any applicable waiting periods or any applicable authorizations or affirmative approvals of certain other non-U.S. governmental authorities under antitrust laws; (iv) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to Cypress; and (v) compliance in all material respects on the part of each of Cypress and Infineon with such party’s covenants under the Merger Agreement. There can be no assurance that these conditions to the completion of the Merger will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. If the Merger is not completed, Cypress's stockholders will not receive the proposed Merger consideration.



Regulatory and governmental entities may impose conditions on the granting of the required regulatory clearances and approvals described above. In that case, lengthy negotiations may ensue among these regulatory or governmental entities, Infineon and us, which could delay the closing (and any receipt of Merger consideration) and increase the risk that the merger might not be completed.



If the Merger is not completed, our share price could fall to the extent that our current share price reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed. Furthermore, if the Merger is not completed, we may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and stock price, including the following:



•we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Merger, and these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether the Merger is completed;



•the failure of the Merger to be completed may result in adverse publicity and a negative impression of us in the financial markets and investment community, and negative responses from customers, partners and other third parties;



•legal proceedings may be instituted against us, our directors and others relating to the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement;



•any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the acquisition, including any adverse changes in our relationships with our customers, vendors and employees, may continue or intensify in the event the Merger is not completed; 



•we could be required to pay a termination fee of up to $330 million to Infineon under certain circumstances as described in the Merger Agreement; and



•we may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures.



Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful. 



On April 1, 2019, we launched a joint venture in Hong Kong with SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS"), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SK hynix Inc. ("SKH"), a South Korean company. The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh"), is controlled by SKHS. We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture. NAND is a commoditized product line that has traditionally experienced volatile sales results with low gross margins. Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress. 



Although we expect to have influence over SkyHigh's operations, they are not under our control and we might be unaware of, or unable to correct, any operating or product issues that may develop. Any failure by SkyHigh to satisfy customer expectations could adversely impact our own relationships with such customers and/or the reputation of our brand. Any failure by SkyHigh to meet its commitments to Cypress under our back-end manufacturing agreement could cause Cypress's assembly 



49



and testing facilities to be underutilized and could adversely affect Cypress's operating margins. In addition, there can be no assurance that the joint venture will be profitable. We therefore face a risk that our investment might not generate meaningful cash flows to re-invest, for example, in higher-margin areas of our business. The success of this joint venture investment will depend on various other factors over which we may have limited or no control and will require ongoing and effective cooperation with SKHS, which might be difficult to maintain. Such risks could be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions, causing the value of this joint venture investment to decline and leading to impairment charges. Any failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the joint venture could adversely affect our stock price.



Our financial results could be adversely impacted if privately-held companies in which we have invested fail to launch new products or maintain key customer relationships. 



We have invested in certain privately-held companies. There can be no guarantee that such businesses will perform as initially expected, launch new products and solutions as initially expected, or gain or maintain market acceptance. When the value of a privately-held investment declines, we may be required to record an impairment of the investment's carrying value on our books. For example:



•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones. Consequently, we recognized an impairment charge of $51.2 million related to our investment in Enovix, reducing its carrying value on our books to zero. 



•During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca") was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $65.1 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of the end of fiscal 2018). 



•During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we determined that our investment in Deca had become further impaired due to a significant reduction in orders from Deca's key customers, and based on other objective indicators of enterprise value. Consequently, we recognized an additional impairment charge of $29.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to $28.6 million (the estimated fair value of our investment as of June 30, 2019). 



If these or any of our other privately-held businesses fail to introduce new products and solutions or successfully develop new technologies, or if their customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating the products or solutions offered by these businesses, or if market demand for the products or solutions offered by these businesses is not created or sustained, or if these or any of our other privately-held businesses are not able to raise capital to fund their operations, then we might fail to realize any benefit from our investments in such privately-held companies and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed as a result of impairment of the carrying value of such investments.



In particular, there is a substantial risk that the carrying value of our investment in Deca may become further impaired. Deca’s current and future revenues are dependent on a small number of significant customers. The loss of, material delay in placing orders by, or significant decrease in demand from, any of Deca's key customers would have a material adverse effect on Deca’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. As a result of declining orders in the second quarter of 2019, Deca will likely need to secure additional funding to support its growth and cash needs. Failure to secure such funding, if needed, will impact its ability to continue as a going concern. Deca's management is currently in the process of evaluating certain strategic alternatives. If Deca is unable to (a) secure sufficient orders from its existing significant customers or new customers, (b) raise sufficient funding, if needed, for continuing its operations, or (c) complete a strategic transaction that allows realization of its economic value, we may be required to record further impairment charges to partially or fully write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca. As of June 30, 2019, the carrying value of our investment in Deca was $28.6 million.



The exchange or conversion, as applicable, of the Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes could dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and negatively impact our financial position.



The exchange or conversion, as applicable, of some or all of Spansion's 2% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2020 (the "Spansion Notes") or our 4.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes") could dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders and negatively impact our financial position. The Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes are each exchangeable or convertible, as applicable, into shares of the Company’s common stock at the election of the holders of such 



50



series of notes upon the occurrence of certain conditions specified in the indenture governing such series of notes, including during any fiscal quarter (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the exchange or conversion price of the applicable series of notes on each applicable trading day (the "sales price condition"). Any exchange or conversion, as applicable, of the Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes may be settled in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock, in each case at our election.



The sales price condition for the Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes was met on the last trading day of the Company’s fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019 and, as a result, holders of the Spansion Notes and the 2022 Notes, as applicable, may, at their option, exchange or convert, as applicable, their notes during the Company’s fiscal quarter ending September 29, 2019. If we elect to settle all or any portion of such exchanges or conversions of Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes, as applicable, in shares of our common stock, any sales in the public market of such common stock issued upon such exchange or conversion, as applicable, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Additionally, if we elect to settle all or any portion of such exchanges or conversions of Spansion Notes or 2022 Notes, as applicable, in cash, such payments of cash would reduce our available cash and negatively impact our liquidity.



Uncertainty about the continuing availability of LIBOR may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.



Borrowings under our revolving credit facility may, at our option, bear interest at a floating rate based on the London Inter-bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). We also have entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the LIBOR benchmark interest rate. As described in Note 14 (Foreign Currency and Interest Rate Derivatives) to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I of this Quarterly Report, we pay the counterparties to these swap agreements a fixed rate in return for a LIBOR-based floating rate, which we use to fund payments under our revolving credit facility. The aggregate notional amount of these swap agreements is $300 million.



In July 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority (the "FCA"), which regulates LIBOR, announced that after December 31, 2021, it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate LIBOR. We cannot predict the effect of the FCA’s decision not to sustain LIBOR or, if changes ultimately are made to LIBOR, the effect those changes may have on the interest we pay on our revolving credit facility and the payments we receive under our interest rate forward swap agreements.



In anticipation of LIBOR’s discontinuation, our revolving credit agreement, as amended on July 31, 2019, provides a transition mechanism to a LIBOR-replacement rate to be mutually agreed upon by us and our lenders. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to reach an agreement with our lenders on any such replacement benchmark before experiencing adverse effects due to changes in interest rates, if at all. In addition, any such changes under the revolving credit facility may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher or lower than payments we presently are obligated to make under our revolving credit facility. We also may seek to amend our swap agreements to replace the benchmark rate. There can be no assurance, however, that the counterparties to those agreements will agree to a replacement rate, and any such changes to the swap agreements may result in us receiving payments that are higher or lower than the payments we are entitled to receive under our existing swap agreements. There also can be no assurance that (a) the amounts we are entitled to receive under the swap agreements will continue to be correlated with the amounts we are required to pay under the revolving credit facility or (b) transitions to new benchmarks will be concurrent across our various agreements, the failure of either or both of which could diminish the swaps’ effectiveness as hedging instruments. Any of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



None.



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.



51



ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION



None. 



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 



The documents listed below are filed (or furnished, as noted) as exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



52



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



53



