ITEM 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



4



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



5



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



6



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.



7



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES



Fiscal Years



Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (“Cypress” or the “Company”) reports on a fiscal-year basis. The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year. Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each contained 52 weeks. The first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018 and the first quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on April 2, 2017.



Basis of Presentation



The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) and include the accounts of Cypress and all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.



In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. The year-end condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").



Certain balances included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. During the quarter ended April 1, 2018, the Company allocated the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and restructuring costs by function in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Consolidated Statement of Operations for the prior period has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation as follow:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.



Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



The Company's significant accounting policies are described under Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



The following are the recent accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted that may materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial statements:



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases, ("Topic 842"), which replaces most current lease guidance when it becomes effective. This standard update intends to 



8



increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions. The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations. The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities". The amendments in ASU 2017-12 are intended to more closely align hedge accounting with companies’ risk management strategies, simplify the application of hedge accounting, and increase transparency as to the scope and results of hedging programs. The guidance in ASU 2017-12 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact this guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 



In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, "Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income". The amendments in ASU 2018-02 are intended to allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The guidance in ASU 2018-02 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact this guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



Adoption of ASC 606:



In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue from contracts with customers, ASU No. 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“Topic 606”). This standard update outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods including interim reporting reports beginning after December 15, 2017. Collectively, we refer to Topic 606, its related amendments and Subtopic 340-40 as the “new standard”. 



On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018). Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605. There was no impact on the opening accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606. We reclassified the sales return reserve to current liabilities presented as "Price adjustment and other revenue reserves" from the allowance for accounts receivable due to the adoption of Topic 606. 



Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Sales of products with alternative use account for the majority of our revenue and are recognized at a point in time, the timing of such recognition remained the same under Topic 606.



Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction, that are collected by the Company from a customer and deposited with the relevant government authority, are excluded from revenue. The Company's revenue arrangements do not contain significant financing components. 



Revenue is recognized over a period of time when it is assessed that performance obligations are satisfied over a period rather than at a point in time. When any of the following criteria is fulfilled, revenue is recognized over a period of time:



(a)The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the performance as Cypress performs.



(b)Cypress’ performance creates or enhances an asset (for example, work in process) that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced.



(c)Cypress’ performance does not create an asset with an alternative use, and Cypress has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.



We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.



9



Sales to certain distributors are made under arrangements which provide the distributors with price adjustments, price protection, stock rotation and other allowances under certain circumstances. These adjustment and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration. We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenue recognized. We believe that there will not be significant changes to our estimates of variable consideration.



Our non-recurring engineering (“NRE”) contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations. For NRE arrangements, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We generally determine standalone selling price of intellectual properties license based on residual approach, and service based on cost plus a reasonable margin. We recognize revenue in the amount to which we have a right to invoice, if the right to consideration from the customer is in an amount that corresponds reasonably with the value to the customer of the entity’s performance completed to date.



If a customer pays consideration, or Cypress has a right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional before we transfer a good or service to the customer, those amounts are classified as deferred income/ advances received from customers which are included in other current liabilities or other long-term liabilities when the payment is made or it is due, whichever is earlier.



If the arrangement includes variable contingent consideration, the Company recognizes revenue over time if Management can reasonably measure its progress, or capable of providing reliable information that would be required to apply an appropriate method of measuring progress.



Practical Expedients and Elections



Sales commissions are owed and are recorded at the time of sell through of our products to end customers. These costs are recorded within sales and marketing expenses.



We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed. 



We have elected to account for shipping and handling costs as fulfillment costs after the customer obtains control of the goods. 



Other recently adopted pronouncements:



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Intra- Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.” For public entities, ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter fiscal 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18 Restricted Cash, which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-18 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim periods within those periods) using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. The Company adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-18 as of January 1, 2018. There was no material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements resulting from the adoption of this guidance.



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment." The standard eliminates the second step in the goodwill impairment test which requires an entity to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. Instead, an entity should recognize an impairment loss if the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, with the impairment loss not to exceed the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests conducted in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter fiscal 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting." ASU 2017-09 amends the requirements in GAAP related to accounting for changes to stock compensation awards. The guidance in ASU 2017-09 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter fiscal 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 



10



Revision of prior period financial statements



During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, we identified and recorded certain immaterial errors that originated in fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016. These errors consisted primarily of errors in certain assumptions and calculations used in the determination of non-cash stock-based compensation primarily relating to the Employee Share Purchase Program (“ESPP”). We determined that the errors were not material to the previously issued financial statements and disclosures included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 or for any quarterly periods included therein.



For the three months ended April 1, 2018, we are presenting comparative fiscal 2017 quarterly information. The fiscal 2017 results for the three months ended April 2, 2017 have been revised to reflect the quarterly impact of the adjustments described above.



The effect of the immaterial corrections on the consolidated statement of operations for the quarter ended April 2, 2017 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of the immaterial corrections on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (loss) for the quarter ended April 2, 2017 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of the immaterial corrections on the consolidated statement of cash flows for the quarter ended April 2, 2017 is as follows:



11



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of the immaterial corrections on the disclosures related to stock-based compensation for the quarter ended April 2, 2017 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12



NOTE 2. BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS



Accounts Receivable, Net 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Inventories



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Current Assets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



13



Other Long-term Assets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Current Liabilities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Long-term Liabilities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 3. INTANGIBLE ASSETS



The following table presents details of the Company's intangible assets:



14



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The below table presents details of the in-process research and development assets as of April 1, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the three months ended April 1, 2018, three projects representing $89.5 million of the total capitalized in-process research and development ("IPR&D"), with estimated useful lives of 5 years, had reached technological feasibility and were transferred to developed technology.



The following table summarizes the amortization expense by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The estimated future amortization expense related to developed technology and other intangible assets as of April 1, 2018 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 4. INVESTMENT IN EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS



Privately-held equity investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting if the Company has an ownership interest of 20% or greater or if it has the ability to exercise significant influence over the operations of such companies. 



15



Enovix Corporation ("Enovix")



During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company determined that its investment in Enovix, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, had suffered an other-than temporary impairment primarily because Enovix had not achieved certain key planned product development milestones. Consequently, the Company recognized a charge of $51.2 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. The Company held 41.2% of Enovix's outstanding voting shares as of April 1, 2018.



Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca")



The Company held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017.



The below table presents the changes in carrying value of the equity method investments related to Deca.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 5. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS



Assets/Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



The following tables present the fair value hierarchy for the Company's financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017:



16



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017. There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair value hierarchies during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 related to these securities.



Valuation Techniques:



There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities. For a description of the valuation techniques, refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.



Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis



Certain of the Company’s assets, including intangible assets, goodwill and cost-method investments, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis if impairment is indicated. 



Fair Value of Long-term Debt



As of April 1, 2018, the carrying value of the Company's revolving credit facility was $63.0 million (See Note 8). The carrying value of the Company's revolving credit facility approximates its fair value since it bears an interest rate that is comparable to rates on similar credit facilities and is determined using Level 2 inputs.



The Company's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes assumed as part of the Company's merger with Spansion Inc. (Spansion"), which was completed on March 12, 2015 (the "Merger"), are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and are categorized as a Level 2 liability. The principal of the Notes and the estimated fair value as of April 1, 2018 were $12.0 million and $38.5 million, respectively. See Note 8 for further details.



The Company’s 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs. The principal of the Notes and the estimated fair value as of April 1, 2018 were $287.5 million and $391.7 million, respectively. See Note 8 for further details.



17



The Company's 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs. The principal of the Notes and the estimated fair value of the principal as of April 1, 2018 were $150.0 million and $161.6 million, respectively. See Note 8 for further details.



NOTE 6. RESTRUCTURING



Since 2016, the Company has launched certain long-term strategic corporate transformation initiatives which have required certain restructuring activities to streamline our internal processes and redeploy personnel and resources to target markets as discussed below:



2018 Restructuring Plan



During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce ("2018 Plan") which will result in elimination of approximately 75 positions in various functions. The restructuring charge of $1.6 million during the three months ended April 1, 2018 consists of personnel costs. The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $1.6 million will be paid out in cash through fiscal 2018.



2017 Restructuring Plan



In December 2017, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce ("2017 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 80 positions worldwide across various functions. The restructuring charge of $2.5 million during the three months ended April 1, 2018 consists of personnel costs. The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $1.9 million will be paid out in cash through fiscal 2018.



2016 Restructuring Plan



In September 2016, the Company began the implementation of a reduction in workforce ("2016 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 430 positions worldwide across various functions. No restructuring charges were recorded for the three months ended April 1, 2018 related to the 2016 Plan. The personnel costs related to the 2016 Plan during the three months ended April 2, 2017 were $2.6 million. The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $0.3 million which consists of personnel costs will be paid out in cash through fiscal 2018.



Spansion Integration-Related Restructuring Plan ("Spansion Integration Plan")



In March 2015, the Company implemented cost reduction and restructuring activities in connection with the Merger. No restructuring charges were recorded for the three months ended April 1, 2018 related to the Spansion Integration Plan. The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $10.6 million, which relates to an excess lease obligation, will be paid out in cash over the remaining lease term through fiscal 2026. 



Summary of Restructuring Costs



The following table summarizes the restructuring charges recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the restructuring costs by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18



Roll-forward of the Restructuring Reserves



Restructuring activity under the Company's restructuring plans was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 7. EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS AND STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION



The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, stock-based compensation capitalized in inventory totaled $2.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively.



The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense by type of awards:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, by type of awards:



19



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Equity Incentive Program



As of April 1, 2018, approximately 45.1 million stock options, or 25.1 million RSUs/PSUs were available for grant as share-based awards under the 2013 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan (formerly the Spansion 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan) and the 2012 Incentive Award Plan (formerly the Ramtron Plan). As of April 1, 2018, there were 3.1 million shares of stock available for issuance under the ESPP plan.



Stock Options



The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activities: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



There were no options granted during the three months ended April 1, 2018.



Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (“PSUs”)



The following table summarizes the Company's RSU/PSU activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2018 Long-Term Incentive Program



20



During the first quarter of 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Company approved the issuance of service-based and performance-based restricted stock units under the Company's Long-term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") to certain employees. The milestones for the 2018 LTIP grants include service and performance conditions based on revenue growth, and profit milestones over the next 3 years. A portion of the LTIP awards include a multiplier based certain market conditions. 



NOTE 8. DEBT



Total debt is comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of April 1, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants under all of its debt facilities.



Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B



On March 12, 2018, the Company amended and restated its Credit and Guaranty Agreement. The amendment reduces the applicable margins on the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B. After giving effect to the amendment, the Term Loan B bears interest, at the option of the Company, at the base rate plus an applicable margin of 1.25% or the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin of 2.25%. The Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility bears interest, at the option of the Company, at the base rate plus an applicable margin of either 0.75% or 1.00%, depending on the Company's secured leverage ratio, or the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin of 1.75% or 2.00%, depending on the Company's secured leverage ratio. The amendment removed the fixed charge coverage ratio financial covenants. In addition, for Term Loan B, the amendment removed the total leverage ratio covenant and changed the required amortization payments to 1% per annum and waived the excess cash flow mandatory repayment for fiscal 2017.



As of April 1, 2018, $568.1 million aggregate principal amount of loans, including the revolving credit facility and Term Loan B, were outstanding under the Credit Facility.



2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes



Pursuant to the Merger, Cypress assumed Spansion's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes (the “Spansion Notes”) on March 12, 2015. They are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company. The Spansion Notes will mature on September 1, 2020, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1. The Spansion Notes may be due and payable immediately in certain events of default.



On March 7, 2018, the Company entered into a privately negotiated agreement to induce the extinguishment of a portion of the Spansion Notes. The Company paid the holders of the Spansion Notes cash for the aggregate principal of $10 million and delivered 1.4 million shares of common stock for the conversion spread. The Company recorded $0.2 million in loss on extinguishment and a reduction in additional paid-in capital of $25.7 million towards the deemed repurchase of the equity component of the notes. The loss on extinguishment is recorded in "Interest Expense" in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.



21



The 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the components of the total interest on the Spansion Notes recognized as an expense:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes



On June 23, 2016, the Company issued, at face value, $287.5 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2022 (the “Notes”) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Notes are governed by an Indenture (“Indenture”), dated June 23, 2016, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. The Notes will mature on January 15, 2022, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 4.5% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15, commencing on January 15, 2017. The Notes may be due and payable immediately in certain events of default.



The 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the components of the total interest expense related to the Notes recognized as expense:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



22



Capped Calls



In connection with the issuance of the Notes, the Company entered into capped call transactions with certain bank counterparties to reduce the risk of potential dilution of the Company’s common stock upon the exchange of the Notes. The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment. The capped calls expire in January 2022.



2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes



On November 6, 2017, the Company, issued at face value, $150.0 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2023 (the "2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are governed by an indenture ("2017 Indenture"), dated November 6, 2017, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. The 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes will mature on February 1, 2023 unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually.



The 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the component of the total interest expense related to the 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes recognized as an expense:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Future Debt Payments



The future scheduled principal payments for the outstanding Company's debt as of April 1, 2018, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Operating Lease Commitments



23



The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through fiscal 2022 and thereafter. Some leases include renewal options, which would permit extensions of the expiration dates at rates approximating fair market rental values at the time of the extension.



As of April 1, 2018, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restructuring accrual balances related to operating facility leases were $10.6 million and $11.5 million as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.



Product Warranties



The Company generally warrants its products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year and that product warranty is generally limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product or a replacement part. The Company estimates its warranty costs based upon its historical warranty claim experience. Warranty returns are recorded as an allowance for sales returns. The allowance for sales returns is reviewed quarterly to verify that it reflects the remaining obligations based on the anticipated returns over the balance of the obligation period.



The following table presents the Company's warranty reserve activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contractual Obligations



The Company has entered into agreements with certain vendors that include “take or pay” terms. Take or pay terms obligate the Company to purchase a minimum required amount of materials or services or make specified payments in lieu of such purchase. The Company may not be able to consume minimum commitments under these take or pay terms, requiring payments to vendors, which may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s earnings.



Litigation and Asserted Claims



On August 15, 2016, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by the California Institute of Technology (“Caltech”) against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California (Case No. 16-cv-03714). The other co-defendants are Apple Inc., Avago Technologies Limited, Broadcom Corporation, and Broadcom Limited. Caltech alleges that defendants infringe four patents. On July 12, 2017, the Court issued a claim construction order. Trial will likely not occur until at least the first quarter of 2019, and the Company will defend against the allegations accordingly. Due to the current stage of the proceedings, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the loss or the range of possible losses, if any.



The Company is currently a party to various other legal proceedings, claims, disputes and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Based on its own investigations, the Company believes the ultimate outcome of the current legal 



24



proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operation or cash flows. However, because of the nature and inherent uncertainties of the litigation, should the outcome of these actions be unfavorable, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.



Indemnification Obligations



The Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify other parties to such agreements with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts that the Company has entered into, under which the Company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants or terms and conditions related to such matters as the sale and/or delivery of its products, title to assets sold, certain intellectual property claims, defective products, specified environmental matters and certain income taxes. In these circumstances, payment by the Company is customarily conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the Company to challenge the other party’s claims and vigorously defend itself and the third party against such claims. Further, the Company's obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time, amount or the scope of its responsibility and in some instances, the Company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made under these agreements.



It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company's obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments the Company has made under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Management believes that if the Company were to incur a loss in any of these matters, such loss would not have a material effect on its business, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations, although there can be no assurance of this. As of April 1, 2018, the Company had no reason to believe a loss exceeding amounts already recognized would be incurred.



NOTE 10. FOREIGN CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES



The Company enters into multiple foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain operational exposures resulting from fluctuations in Japanese yen and Euro exchange rates. The Company does not enter into derivative securities for speculative purposes. The Company’s hedging policy is designed to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its operating results. Some foreign currency forward contracts are considered to be economic hedges that were not designated as hedging instruments while others were designated as cash flow hedges. Whether designated or undesignated as cash flow hedges or not, these forward contracts protect the Company against the variability of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from revenues, expenses and net asset or liability positions designated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The maximum original duration of any contract allowable under the Company’s hedging policy is 13 months for foreign currency hedging contracts.



Cash Flow Hedges



The Company enters into cash flow hedges to protect non-functional currency inventory purchases and certain other operational expenses, in addition to its on-going program of cash flow hedges to protect its non-functional currency revenues against variability in cash flows due to foreign currency fluctuations. The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges have maturities between three and twelve months. All hedging relationships are formally documented, and the hedges are designed to offset changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions at the inception of the hedge. The Company recognizes derivative instruments from hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measures them at fair value on a monthly basis. The Company records changes in the intrinsic value of its cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the forecasted transaction occurs. Interest charges or “forward points” on the forward contracts are excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness and are recorded in interest and other income, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. When the forecasted transaction occurs, the Company reclassifies the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue or costs, depending on the risk hedged. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, the Company will reclassify the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations at that time. At April 1, 2018, the Company has a gain of $0.9 million, which is related to cash flow hedge, recorded in other comprehensive income.



The Company evaluates hedge effectiveness at the inception of the hedge prospectively as well as retrospectively and records any ineffective portion of the hedge in interest and other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.



25



At April 1, 2018, the Company had outstanding forward contracts to buy approximately ¥1,785 million for $16.0 million. 



In December 2017, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties, to swap variable interest payments on certain debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire on July 2021. The objective of the swap was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs. The interest rate on the variable debt becomes fixed in April 2018. 



On January 3, 2018, the Company evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and has designated these swaps as hedging instruments. Upon designation as cash flow hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. At April 1, 2018, the Company has a gain of $3.0 million, which is related to interest rate swaps, recorded in other comprehensive income. 



Non-designated hedges



Total notional amounts of net outstanding contracts were as summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of derivative instruments on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 was immaterial.



The gross fair values of derivative instruments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



26



NOTE 11. NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE



The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, approximately 2.5 million and 23.5 million, weighted average potentially dilutive securities consisting of outstanding share based awards and convertible debt, respectively, were excluded in the computation of diluted net loss per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 



NOTE 12. INCOME TAXES



The Company's income tax expense was $5.1 million and $4.9 million for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, respectively. The income tax expense for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were primarily attributable to non-U.S. taxes associated with the Company's non-U.S. operations. 



On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Act”) was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21%, the repeal of corporate alternative minimum tax, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. 



On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB 118") was issued to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the Act. For the three months ended April 1, 2018, the Company did not obtain any additional information affecting the provisional amount initially recorded at December 31, 2017. Additional work is still necessary for a more detailed analysis of the Company’s historical foreign earnings as well as potential correlative adjustments. Any subsequent adjustment to these amounts will be recorded to current tax expense in the quarter of 2018 in which the analysis is complete. 



The Company intends to continue maintaining a full valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of these allowances. However, considering the Company's current assessment of the probability of maintaining profitability, there is a reasonable possibility that, within the next year, sufficient positive evidence may become available to reach a conclusion that a significant portion, or all, of the valuation allowance will no longer be needed. As such, the Company may release a significant portion, or all, of its valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets within the next 12 months. This release, if any, would result in the recognition of certain deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense for the period such release is recorded. 



Unrecognized Tax Benefits



As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the Company's effective tax rate totaled $29.6 million and $28.9 million, respectively.



Management believes events that could occur in the next 12 months which could cause a change in unrecognized tax benefits include, but are not limited to the following:



•completion of examinations by the U.S. or foreign taxing authorities; and



•expiration of statute of limitations on the Company's tax returns.



27



The calculation of unrecognized tax benefits involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. Management regularly assesses the Company’s tax positions in light of legislative, bilateral tax treaty, regulatory and judicial developments in the countries in which the Company does business. The Company believes it is reasonably possible that it may recognize up to approximately $1.3 million of of its existing unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months as a result of the lapse of statutes of limitations and the resolution of agreements with domestic and various foreign tax authorities.



Classification of Interest and Penalties



The Company classifies interest and penalties as components of the income tax provision in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the amounts of accrued interest and penalties totaled $11.6 million and $11.0 million, respectively.



NOTE 13. SEGMENT, GEOGRAPHICAL AND CUSTOMER INFORMATION



Segment Information



The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of solutions for embedded systems, from automotive, industrial and networking platforms to interactive consumer devices.



Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise for which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision-maker, or decision-making group, in making decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance. The Company’s chief operating decision maker ("CODM") is considered to be the Chief Executive Officer. 



Revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Income (loss) before Income Taxes



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company does not allocate goodwill and intangible assets impairment charges, impact of purchase accounting, IPR&D impairment, severance and retention costs, acquisition-related costs, stock-based compensation, interest income and other, and interest expense to its segments. In addition, the Company does not allocate assets to its segments. The Company excludes these items consistent with the manner in which it internally evaluates its results of operations.



28



Geographical Information



The following table presents revenues by geographical locations: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Property, plant and equipment, net, by geographic locations were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company tracks its assets by physical location. Although management reviews asset information on a corporate level and allocates depreciation expense by segment, the Company’s CODM does not review asset information on a segment basis.



Customer Information



Outstanding accounts receivable from two of the Company's distributors accounted for 21.1% and 14.9% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of April 1, 2018. Outstanding accounts receivable from one of the Company's distributors accounted for 28.0% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.



Revenue earned through two of the Company's distributors accounted for 19.4% and 13.5% of its consolidated revenue for the three months ended April 1, 2018. No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's revenues for the three months ended April 1, 2018.



29



Revenue earned through one of the Company’s distributors accounted for 16.9% of its consolidated revenue for the three months ended April 2, 2017. No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's revenues for the three months ended April 2, 2017.



NOTE 14. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



The changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, by components are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 15. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS



In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchased from, or sold to several entities, for which one of its directors or executive officers also serves or served as a director or entities that are otherwise affiliated with one of the Company's directors or executive officers. 



The following table provides the transactions with these parties for the indicated periods for the time period such parties were a related party of the Company:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, total receivable balances with these parties totaled $0.5 million and $3.8 million, respectively, and total payable balances with these parties totaled $8.9 million and $2.7 million, respectively.



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



In addition to the other information set forth in this report, including the following risk factor, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. Unless they materially change, risk factors in our Annual Report and Quarterly Reports are not repeated here, but are incorporated by reference herein. The risks described in our reports are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be not material may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.



Geopolitical uncertainty, and changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, import and excise duties, taxes or other governmental rules and regulations could adversely our business and results of operations



A majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. Risks associated with international operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations, include:



•political instability, and the possibility of a deteriorating relationship with the United States;



•the imposition of new or modified international trade restrictions, tariffs, import and excise duties or other taxes;



•import and export requirements, including restrictions on sales to certain end customers;



•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments or on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;



•changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions;



•a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment in some countries, which, among other things, can create uncertainty regarding contract enforcement, intellectual property rights and liability issues; and



•inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.



The U.S. federal government or other governmental bodies may propose changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes and other government rules and regulations. Any changes to the international trading system, or the emergence of an international trade dispute, could significantly impact our business and have a negative impact on our revenues. In addition, the U.S. and other countries in which we operate impose import and excise duties, tariffs and other taxes on our products in varying amounts. Any significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.



We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems or intergovernmental disputes. Any determination that our operations or activities did not comply with applicable U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, interruptions of business, terminations of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal and equitable sanctions.



These international economic and political uncertainties and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our, or our suppliers’ and distributors’, business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.



