PART II-OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our Annual Report, any of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, and/or future results. Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. The risk factors in our Annual Report are not repeated in this Quarterly Report, unless the underlying risks have materially changed. The risks described in our Annual Report and this Quarterly Report are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or future results.



Geopolitical uncertainty, and changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, import and excise duties, taxes or other governmental rules and regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations



A majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. Risks associated with international operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations, include:



•political instability, and the possibility of a deteriorating relationship with the United States;



•the imposition of new or modified international trade restrictions, tariffs, import and excise duties or other taxes;



•import and export requirements, including restrictions on sales to certain end customers;



•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, including potential intervention by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United Stated (CFIUS) or by other applicable administrative review boards to block strategic transactions that might otherwise be in shareholders’ interests;



•restrictions on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;



•changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions;



•a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment in some countries, which, among other things, can create uncertainty regarding contract enforcement, intellectual property rights and liability issues; and



•inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.



The U.S. federal government or other governmental bodies may propose changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes and other government rules and regulations. Any changes to the international trading system, or the emergence of an international trade dispute, could significantly impact our business and have a negative impact on our revenues. In addition, the U.S. and other countries in which we operate impose import and excise duties, tariffs and other taxes on our products in varying amounts. Any significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations.



For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case. Similarly, general trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with one round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July 2018 followed by a round of retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods. Although we do not anticipate any material impact on our supply chain costs from the July 2018 round of U.S. tariffs (and to date the Chinese tariffs have generally focused on other industries), further rounds of tariffs have been threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders. 



•If the U.S. were to impose tariffs on components that we or our suppliers source from China, the tariffs could cause our cost for such components to increase, which could narrow the profits we earn from U.S. sales of products containing such components or force us to raise prices, negatively impacting our U.S. sales. 



•Some of our customers manufacture products containing our components for re-sale into the U.S. If the U.S. were to impose tariffs on the finished goods that our customers import into the U.S., such tariffs could negatively impact our customers' sales, thereby causing an indirect negative impact on our own sales.



40



•If China were to impose new tariffs on the products we sell in China, or on finished goods our end customers sell in China, such tariffs could directly or indirectly reduce demand for our products, negatively impacting our sales. 



We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems or intergovernmental disputes. Any determination that our operations or activities did not comply with applicable U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, interruptions of business, terminations of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal and equitable sanctions.



These international economic and political uncertainties and regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our, or our suppliers’ and distributors’, business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations. 



We are dependent on third parties to manufacture products, distribute products, generate a significant portion of our product sales, fulfill our customer orders and transport our products. Problems in the performance or availability of these companies could seriously harm our financial performance.



We rely significantly on independent contractors to manufacture, which includes assembly of, our products. In addition, in March 2017, we divested a manufacturing facility located in Minnesota, which reduced our internal manufacturing capacity.



If market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements. A shortage in foundry manufacturing capacity, which is more likely to occur at times of increasing demand, could hinder our ability to meet demand for our products and therefore adversely affect our operating results. Suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to commodity price increases, capacity constraints or other factors, which may lead to supply interruptions which could materially harm our results of operations. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by any such foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity raises the likelihood of potential shortages and wafer price increases. Our operations would be disrupted if any of our foundry partners terminates its relationship with us, delays its shipments to us, or experiences financial difficulty and we are unable to arrange a satisfactory alternative to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner. There are also only a few foundry vendors that have the capabilities to manufacture our most advanced products. If we need to engage alternate sources of supply, such sources may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to engage alternate sources of supply, we may encounter start-up difficulties or yield issues or incur additional costs. Shipments could be delayed significantly while these sources are engaged and qualified for volume production.



While many of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facilities located in the Philippines and Thailand, we rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products. We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so.



Our foundry partners and assembly and test subcontractors have operations in locations that may suffer the impact of certain natural disasters and political risk, which could impact their ability to provide us with our products. We monitor these events closely, but if one of our third-party manufacturing partners were to suffer significant damage to its operations as a result of a natural disaster or other catastrophic events, our ability to timely meet consumer demand would suffer which would materially harm our results of operations.



Our channel partners include distributors and resellers. We continue to expand and change our relationships with our distributors. Worldwide sales through our distributors accounted for approximately 73% of our revenue in fiscal year 2017. We rely on many distributors to assist us in creating customer demand, providing technical support and other value-added services to our customers, filling customer orders and stocking our products. We face ongoing business risks due to our reliance on our channel partners to create and maintain customer relationships where we have a limited or no direct relationship. Should our relationships with our channel partners or their effectiveness decline, we face the risk of declining demand which could affect our revenue and results of operations. Our contracts with our distributors may be terminated by either party upon notice. The termination of a significant distributor or a reseller could (a) impact our revenue and limit our access to certain end customers, (b) result in the return of a material amount of inventory held by the distributor or reseller that we may not be able to resell or have to resell at a loss, and (c) jeopardize our ability to collect accounts receivable originating through that distributor or reseller. In addition, our distributors are located all over the world and vary in size and financial strength. Any disruptions to our distributors’ operations such as lower sales, lower earnings, debt downgrades, the inability to access capital markets and/or higher interest rates could have an adverse impact on our business.



We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers’ facilities. Transport or delivery problems due to their error or because of unforeseen interruptions in their business 



41



due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters or accidents could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers.



Finally, our customers source a variety of materials from various suppliers in addition to Cypress. The failure by third-party suppliers to meet our customers' materials requirements on a timely basis could negatively impact our customers' manufacturing schedules and reduce or delay our customers' demand for our products. For example, in 2018 a shortage of multi-layer ceramic capacitors, or MLCCs (a necessary component on many printed circuit boards), has created challenges for manufacturers in multiple end markets. To the extent our customers experience shortages of necessary materials, they may be forced to slow production of their end products, with a corresponding decline in the rate at which they purchase materials from us.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



The table below summarizes information with respect to repurchases of common stock made in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 under the $450 million stock buyback program.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.



ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION



None 



42



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* 



Commission File No. 001-10079



+Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall such exhibits be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise specifically stated in such filing.



43



