PART II-OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of our Annual Report, any of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, and/or future results. Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. The risk factors in our Annual Report are not repeated in this Quarterly Report, unless the underlying risks have materially changed. The risks described in our Annual Report and this Quarterly Report are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or future results.



Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful. 



On April 1, 2019, we launched a joint venture in Hong Kong with SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS"), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SK hynix Inc. ("SKH"), a South Korean company. The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") is controlled by SKHS. We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture. NAND is a commoditized product line that has traditionally experienced volatile sales results with low gross margins. Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress. 



Although we expect to have influence over SkyHigh's operations, they are not under our control and we might be unaware of, or unable to correct, any operating or product issues that may develop. Any failure by SkyHigh to satisfy customer expectations could adversely impact our own relationships with such customers and/or the reputation of our brand. Any failure by SkyHigh to meet its commitments to Cypress under our back-end manufacturing agreement could cause Cypress's assembly and testing facilities to be underutilized and could adversely affect Cypress's operating margins. In addition, there can be no assurance that the joint venture will be profitable. SkyHigh's governing documents do not require it to distribute its profits (if any) regularly, or at all (apart from a commitment to distribute to us our share of profit on a specified portion of sales through January 31, 2021). We therefore face a risk that our investment might not generate meaningful cash flows to re-invest, for example, in higher-margin areas of our business. The success of this joint venture investment will depend on various other factors over which we may have limited or no control and will require ongoing and effective cooperation with SKHS, which might be difficult to maintain. Such risks could be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions, causing the value of this joint venture investment to decline and leading to impairment charges. Any failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the joint venture could adversely affect our stock price.



Our financial results could be adversely impacted if privately-held companies in which we have invested fail to launch new products or maintain key customer relationships.



We have invested in certain privately-held companies. There can be no guarantee that such businesses will perform as initially expected, launch new products and solutions as initially expected, or gain or maintain market acceptance. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones. Consequently, we recognized an impairment charge of $51.2 million related to our investment in Enovix, reducing its carrying value on our books to zero. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in another equity investee, Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca"), was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to its estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018. 



If any of our other privately-held businesses fail to introduce new products and solutions or successfully develop new technologies, or if their customers do not successfully introduce new systems or products incorporating the products or solutions offered by these businesses, or if market demand for the products or solutions offered by these businesses is not created or sustained, or if these or any of our other privately-held businesses are not able to raise capital to fund their 



40



operations, then we might fail to realize any benefit from our investments in such privately-held companies and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially harmed as a result of impairment of the carrying value of such investments.



In particular, there is a substantial risk that the carrying value of our investment in Deca may become further impaired. Deca’s current and future revenues are dependent on a small number of significant customers. The loss of, material delay in placing orders by, or significant decrease in demand from, any of Deca's key customers would have a material adverse effect on Deca’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Deca may need to secure additional funding to support its growth and cash needs. Failure to secure such funding, if needed, will impact its ability to continue as a going concern. Deca's management is currently working with its significant customers to secure their long-term commitment to use Deca's technology given the current downturn in the semiconductor industry, and is in the process of evaluating certain alternative strategic options. If Deca is unable to (a) secure sufficient orders from its existing significant customers or new customers, (b) raise sufficient funding, if needed, for continuing its operations, or (c) consummate a strategic transaction that allows realization of its economic value, we will be required to record an impairment charge to partially or fully write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca. As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of our investment in Deca was $61.6 million.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



None.



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.



ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION



None. 



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 



The documents listed below are filed (or furnished, as noted) as exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q:



41



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



42



