Item 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (including exhibits and any information incorporated by reference herein) contains both historical and forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions and strategies for the future. These statements appear in a number of places in this Report and include all statements that are not historical statements of fact regarding the intent, belief or current expectations with respect to, among other things: (i.) our competition; (ii.) our financing plans; (iii.) trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations; (iv.) our growth and operating strategies; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.) the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.) raw material shortages and lead times; (viii.) fluctuations in margins; (ix.) the seasonality of our business; (x.) the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.) the amount and frequency of warranty claims; (xii.) our ability to manage the impact that new or adjusted tariffs may have on the cost of raw materials and components and our ability to sell product internationally; (xiii.) the resolution of litigation contingencies; and (xiv.) the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions. The words “may,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “plan” and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our ability to control, and that actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors discussed herein, including those discussed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 in the section entitled “Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and those factors discussed in detail in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.



The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"). This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. The preparation of these condensed financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments affecting the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On a regular basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to total costs on long-term construction-type contracts, costs to be incurred for product warranties and extended maintenance contracts, bad debts, excess and obsolete inventory, income taxes, share-based compensation, goodwill impairment and contingencies. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for 



21

making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.



OVERVIEW



We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products. Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit. The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada. Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5. Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 



Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market. Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs. Outdoor installation sales can be impacted by outdoor weather conditions and the construction season. Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions. 



Our gross margins tend to fluctuate more on uniquely configured orders than on limited configured orders. Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins. Although we follow the over time method of recognizing revenues for uniquely configured orders, we nevertheless have experienced fluctuations in operating results and expect our future results of operations will be subject to similar fluctuations.



Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and service. Orders are included in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security. As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be included in backlog until all required contractual documents and deposits are received. Backlog can fluctuate due to large order bookings and the timing and seasonality of net sales. Because order backlog fluctuates and may be subject to extended delivery schedules, orders may be canceled and have varied estimated profitability. Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income. Backlog is not a measure defined by GAAP, and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts.



GENERAL



Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems. We organize into business units to focus on customer loyalty over time to earn new and replacement business because our products have a finite lifetime. See "Note 5. Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further information. Our strategies include the creation of a comprehensive line of innovative solutions and systems and our ability to create and leverage platform designs and technologies. These strategies align us to effectively deliver value to our varied customers and their market needs, while serving our stakeholders over the long-term. We focus on creating local capabilities for sales, service, and manufacturing in geographies with expected digital market opportunities. We believe consistently generating profitable growth will provide value to our stakeholders (customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, and communities).



We measure our success using a variety of measures including:



•our percentage of market share by comparing our estimated revenue to the total estimated global digital display revenue,



•our order growth compared to the overall digital market order change,



•financial metrics such as annual order volume and profit change as compared to our previous financial results,



•customer retention and expansion rates, and 



•our ability to generate profits over the long-term to provide a shareholder return.



Certain factors impact our ability to succeed in these strategies and impact our business units to varying degrees. For example, the overall cost to manufacture and the selling prices of our products have decreased over the years and are expected to continue to decrease in the future. Our competitors outside the U.S. are impacted differently by the global trade environment allowing them to avoid tariff costs or reduce prices. As a result, additional competitors have entered the market, and each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years. However, the decline of digital solution pricing over the years and increased user adoption and applications have increased the size of the global market.



Competitor offerings, actions and reactions also can vary and change over time or in certain customer situations. Projects with multimillion-dollar revenue potential attracts competition, and competitors can use marketing or other tactics to win business.



22

Each of our business unit's long-term performance can be impacted by economic conditions in different ways and to different degrees. The effects of an adverse economy are generally less severe on our sports related business as compared to our other businesses, although in severe economic downturns, the sports business can also be seriously impacted.



We can be impacted by short-term events like the U.S. Administrative trade actions in 2018 or a number of other factors that are disclosed in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.



The outlook and unique key growth drivers and challenges by our business units include:



Commercial Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the Commercial business unit will result from a number of factors, including:



•Standard display product market growth due to market adoption and lower product costs, which drive marketplace expansion. Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments. Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit. We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.



•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country. Increased demand is possible from national retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum retailers, and other nationwide organizations. 



•Additional standard display offerings using micro-light emitting diode ("LED") designs.



•Increasing use of LED technologies replacing signage previously using liquid crystal display ("LCD") technology by existing and new customers.



•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.



•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and expanded use of this technology. 



•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.



•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") advertising companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards reaching end of life. This is dependent on no adverse changes occurring in the digital billboard regulatory environment restricting future billboard deployments, as well as maintaining our current market share in a business that is concentrated in a few large OOH companies.



•Replacement cycles within each of these areas. 



Live Events Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the Live Events business unit will result from a number of factors, including:



•Facilities spending more on larger display systems to enhance the game-day and event experience for attendees.



•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.



•Our product and service offerings, including additional micro-LED offerings which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.



•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.



•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.



•Dynamic messaging system needs throughout a sports facility.



•Increasing use of LED technologies replacing signage previously using LCD technology in and surrounding live events facilities.



•Replacement cycles within each of these areas. 



High School Park and Recreation Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the High School Park and Recreation business unit will result from a number of factors, including:



•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards and these systems' ability to provide or enhance academic curriculum offerings for students.



•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.



•Lower system costs driving the use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.



•Expanding control system options tailored for the markets' needs.



23

Transportation Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the Transportation business unit will result from increasing applications and acceptance of electronic displays to manage transportation systems, including roadway, airport, parking, transit and other applications. Effective use of the United States transportation infrastructure requires intelligent transportation systems. This growth is highly dependent on government spending, primarily by state and federal governments, along with the continuing acceptance of private/public partnerships as an alternative funding source. Growth is also expected in dynamic messaging systems for advertising and way-finding use in public transport and airport terminals due to expanded market usage and displays, with LED technology replacing prior LCD installations and additional display offerings using micro-LEDs.



International Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the International business unit will result from achieving greater penetration in various geographies and building products more suited to individual markets. We continue to broaden our product offerings into the transportation segment in Europe and the Middle East. We also focus on sports facility, spectacular-type, OOH advertising products, and architectural lighting market opportunities and the factors listed in each of the other business units to the extent they apply outside of the United States and Canada. Additional opportunities exist with expanded market usage of LED technology due to price considerations, usage of LED technology replacing prior LCD installations and additional display offerings using micro-LEDs.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the six months ended November 2, 2019 contains operating results for 27 weeks while the six months ended October 27, 2018 contains operating results for 26 weeks.



COMPARISON OF THE THREE MONTHS ENDED NOVEMBER 2, 2019 AND OCTOBER 27, 2018 



Net Sales



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Commercial: The decrease in net sales for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and lighter demand in the on-premise niche, while the OOH niche remained relatively flat compared to the same period last year. 



The decrease in orders for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the softer market in the on-premise and OOH niches, partially offset by an increase in large orders in the spectacular niche. 



Live Events: The increase in net sales for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of the demand for upgraded or new solutions for arenas and professional sports stadiums. 



Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to a decrease in the number of projects for college and universities venues.



24

High School Park and Recreation:  The decrease in net sales for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the variability in timing of order delivery.



Orders increased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing.



Transportation: The increase in net sales for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the variability of large order production timing caused by customer project schedules.



Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to the variability of timing caused by large projects. 



International: Net sales for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large spectacular and sports stadium projects.



Orders increased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to general variations in the timing of account-based order placements.



Product Order Backlog



The product order backlog as of November 2, 2019 was $182 million as compared to $150 million as of October 27, 2018 and $207 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Historically, our product order backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders. The product order backlog as of November 2, 2019 increased in all business units from October 27, 2018.



Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of inventory, logistics related costs including tariffs and duties, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.



The decrease in our gross profit percentage for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to an increase in tariff related expenses of approximately $1.1 million, or a 0.6% impact to gross profit, as last year at this time tariffs were just being introduced on US imports of aluminum, steel, and components from China. We also experienced additional expenses of approximately $3.0 million for project delivery costs and for an existing litigation claim estimate. Total warranty as a percent of sales decreased to 2.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to 2.5% during the three months ended October 27, 2018. The following describes the overall impact by business unit for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago:



The gross profit percent decreased in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units for the reasons described above. Additionally, the Commercial business unit experienced increased costs related to products covered under long-term service agreements. The gross profit percent increased in the Transportation business unit primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs, which was partially offset by an increase in warranty expense. The gross profit percent increased in the International business unit primarily due to lower warranty expense and higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs. 



25

Contribution Margin



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses. Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facility-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demonstrations, customer relationship management systems, and supplies. 



Contribution margin is impacted by the previously discussed sales and gross margin for each business unit. The impact of changes in selling expenses on each business unit's contribution margin are as follows:



Selling expense in our Commercial and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts. Selling expense in our International business unit decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions. Selling expense in our Live Events and Transportation business units for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago. 



Other Operating Expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional fees, shareholder relations costs, facilities and equipment-related costs for administrative departments, training costs, and the cost of supplies. 



General and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses. 



Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through our design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 



Our costs for product design and development represent an allocated amount of costs based on time charges, professional services, material costs and the overhead of our engineering departments. Generally, a significant portion of our engineering time is spent on product design and development, while the rest is allocated to large contract work and included in cost of sales. 



Product design and development expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product design and development projects. To deliver value to our customers and meet the markets' needs, we expect an increase in expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions and to develop leading production technologies in the evolving micro-LED space. 



26

Other Income and Expenses 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest income, net: We generate interest income through short-term cash investments, marketable securities, and product sales on an installment basis or in exchange for the rights to sell and retain advertising revenues from displays, which result in long-term receivables. Interest expense is comprised primarily of interest costs on long-term obligations.



The change in interest income, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.



Other income (expense), net: The change in other income and expense, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to foreign currency volatility.



Income Taxes



We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period. Due to various factors, including operations in multiple jurisdictions worldwide, our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuation. 



We have recorded an effective tax rate benefit of 63.8 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to an effective tax rate expense of 5.8 percent for the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The change in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same period one year ago, is primarily driven by differences in estimated tax credits proportionate to estimated pre-tax book income for the period.



COMPARISON OF THE SIX MONTHS ENDED NOVEMBER 2, 2019 AND OCTOBER 27, 2018



Net Sales



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales and orders in all business units were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks. The six months ended October 27, 2018 contained 26 weeks. 



For net sales, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $13.2 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.6 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.6% increase. This change was driven by the order volume reasons described below and the timing of conversion related to the seasonality in our business.



27

For orders, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $12.5 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.0 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.8% increase. We had an increase in orders placed during the first six months ended November 2, 2019 related to new releases of our product offerings.



Commercial: Net sales for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago increased as a result of the timing of projects in the spectacular and OOH niches, while the on-premise niche remained relatively flat compared to the same period last year.



Orders for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat compared to the same period last year. 



Live Events: The increase in net sales for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of the demand for upgraded or new solutions for arenas and professional sports stadiums.



Orders increased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to an increase in the number of projects for professional sports and arena venues.



High School Park and Recreation:  The increase in net sales for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of converting orders and backlog into sales. 



Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing and a decrease in large video projects compared to the same period last year.



Transportation: The increase in net sales for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was related to the variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.



Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.



International: Net sales increased in our International business unit for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago mainly due to the variability of timing caused by large spectacular and sports stadium projects. 



Orders increased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to general variations in the timing of large contracts in professional sports stadium and account-based order placements.



Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales. Cost of sales consists primarily of inventory, logistics related costs including tariffs and duties, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses.



The decrease in our gross profit percentage for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to an increase in tariff related expenses of approximately $2.6 million, or a 0.7% impact to gross profit, as last year at this time tariffs were just being introduced on US imports of aluminum, steel, and components from China. We also experienced additional expenses of approximately $3.0 million for project delivery costs and for an existing litigation claim estimate. Total warranty as a percent of sales decreased to 2.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to 2.5% during the six months ended October 27, 



28

2018. The following describes the overall impact by business unit for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago:



The gross profit percent decreased in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units for the reasons described above, which was partially offset by higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs. The gross profit percent increased in the Transportation and International business units primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs. 



Contribution Margin



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses. Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facility-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demonstrations, customer relationship management systems, and supplies. 



Contribution margin is impacted by the previously discussed sales and gross margin for each business unit. The impact of changes in selling expenses on each business unit's contribution margin are as follows:



All areas of selling expenses were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks. The six months ended October 27, 2018 contained 26 weeks. Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period a year ago primarily due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts. Selling expenses in our International business unit decreased in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions. Selling expenses in our Transportation business unit remained relatively flat in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago.



Other Operating Expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



All areas of operating expenses were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks. The six months ended October 27, 2018 contained 26 weeks.



General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional fees, shareholder relations costs, facilities and equipment-related costs for administrative departments, training costs, and the cost of supplies.



General and administrative expenses in the six months ended November 2, 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses. 



Product design and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, professional services, facilities costs and equipment-related costs and supplies. Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications. These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and 



29

geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points. We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings. Through our design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays. 



Our costs for product design and development represent an allocated amount of costs based on time charges, professional services, material costs and the overhead of our engineering departments. Generally, a significant portion of our engineering time is spent on product design and development, while the rest is allocated to large contract work and included in cost of sales.



Product design and development expenses in the six months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product design and development projects. To deliver value to our customers and meet the markets' needs, we expect an increase in expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions.



Other Income and Expenses 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest income, net: We generate interest income through short-term cash investments, marketable securities, and product sales on an installment basis or in exchange for the rights to sell and retain advertising revenues from displays, which result in long-term receivables. Interest expense is comprised primarily of interest costs on long-term obligations.



The change in interest income, net in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.



Other income (expense), net: The change in other income and expense, net for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to foreign currency volatility.



Income Taxes



Our effective tax rate benefit was 14.6 percent for the six months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of 0.0 percent for the six months ended October 27, 2018. The change in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same period one year ago, is primarily driven by differences in tax credits proportionate to estimated pre-tax book income for the period.



30

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities: Operating cash flows consist primarily of net income adjusted for non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes, and the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities. 



Net cash used in operating activities was $10.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $22.6 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019. The $32.9 million decrease in cash used in operating activities from the first six months of fiscal 2019 to the first six months of fiscal 2020 was the result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $33.8 million, $0.6 million in depreciation and amortization, and $0.6 million in other non-cash items, net, adjusted by a $1.1 million increase in net income and $1.0 million contingent liability adjustment.



The changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Overall, changes in net operating assets and liabilities can be impacted by the timing of cash flows on large orders, which can cause significant short-term and seasonal fluctuations in inventory, accounts receivables, accounts payable, contract assets and liabilities, and various other operating assets and liabilities. Variability in contract assets and liabilities relates to the timing of billings on construction-type contracts and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on contractual payment terms and build and installation schedules. Balances are also impacted by the sports market seasonality. 



Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities: Net cash provided by investing activities totaled $12.3 million in the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $9.9 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019. Marketable securities, net totaled $22.8 million in the first six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to $2.8 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019. Purchases of property and equipment totaled $9.8 million in the first six months of fiscal 2020 and in the first six months of fiscal 2019. During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we had a net cash outflow of $2.3 million for the acquisition of assets of AJT Systems, Inc. 



31

Net cash used in financing activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $8.3 million for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to $6.9 million in the same period one year ago. Principal payments on long-term obligations for the first six months of fiscal 2020 were $1.9 million compared to $0.4 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019, which was mostly related to contingent liability payments. Dividends of $4.5 million, or $0.10 per share, were paid to Daktronics shareholders during the first six months of fiscal 2020, as compared to dividends of $6.3 million, or $0.14 per share, paid to Daktronics shareholders during the first six months of fiscal 2019. During the first six months of fiscal 2020, we repurchased $1.7 million of shares as part of the $40.0 million share repurchase plan authorized by our Board of Directors. There were no share repurchases in the first six months of fiscal 2019. 



Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Discussion: The timing and amounts of working capital changes, dividend payments, stock repurchase program, and capital spending impact our liquidity.



Working capital was $126.6 million and $119.6 million at November 2, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively. The changes in working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory, and contract assets and liabilities, and the sports market seasonality can have a significant impact on the amount of net cash provided by operating activities largely due to the timing of payments and receipts. On multimillion-dollar orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to or exceed 12 months depending on the amount of custom work and a customer’s delivery needs. We often receive down payments or progress payments on these orders.



We had $3.9 million of retainage on long-term contracts included in receivables and contract assets as of November 2, 2019, which has an impact on our liquidity. We expect to collect these amounts within one year. When working capital is needed, we have historically financed our cash needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we violated one of our bank covenants, but we received a waiver from our banking institution for the year ended April 27, 2019.



On November 15, 2019, we entered into an amendment to extend the maturity date of our credit agreement and a related revolving bank note from November 15, 2019 to November 15, 2022 and to modify certain other terms and financial covenants. The revolving amount of the agreement and note remains at $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credit. The credit agreement is unsecured and requires us to be in compliance with certain financial ratios and other covenants. As of November 2, 2019, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $9.6 million. 



On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a related revolving note and continuing and unconditional guaranty agreement with another bank which supported our credit needs outside of the United States. The revolving amount of the loan was $20.0 million, with a maturity date of November 15, 2019. As of November 2, 2019, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement. We did not renew this agreement. Therefore, the loan agreement and related revolving note and guaranty expired and terminated according to their terms on November 15, 2019, and we have no continuing obligations or liability under this loan agreement, revolving note, and guaranty.



We are sometimes required to obtain bank guarantees or other financial instruments for display installations and we have a global banking relationship to provide such instruments. If we are unable to meet the terms of the arrangement, our customer would draw on the banking arrangement, and the bank would subrogate its loss to Daktronics. As of November 2, 2019, we had $5.6 million of such instruments outstanding.



We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding. If we were unable to complete the work, and our customer would call upon the bond for payment, the surety company would subrogate its loss to Daktronics. At November 2, 2019, we had $8.4 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.



Our business growth and profitability improvement strategies depend on investments in capital expenditures and strategic investments. We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $25 million for fiscal 2020 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments. We also evaluate and may invest in new technologies or acquire companies aligned with our business strategy. 



We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations and strategies in the foreseeable future. If our growth extends beyond current expectations, or if we make significant strategic investments, we may need to utilize and possibly increase our credit facilities or seek other means of financing. We anticipate we will be able to obtain any needed funds under commercially reasonable terms from our current lenders or other sources, although this availability cannot be guaranteed.



32

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations



There has been no material change in our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations since the end of our 2019 fiscal year on April 27, 2019. For additional information, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.



Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates



We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1. Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019. We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019. In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted new lease guidance, as described in "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of fiscal 2019.



New Accounting Pronouncements



For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1. Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.



