Item 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



3

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



4

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



5

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(in thousands, except per share data)



(unaudited)



Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Critical Accounting Policies



Daktronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.



In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to fairly present our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts therein. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results in future periods may differ from those estimates.



Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted. The balance sheet at April 29, 2017 has been derived from the audited financial statements at that date, but it does not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. These financial statements should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended April 29, 2017, which are contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year.



Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- to 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year. When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday. Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year. In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period. The nine months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017 contained operating results for 39 weeks. 



Investments in affiliates over which we have significant influence are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Investments in affiliates over which we do not have the ability to exert significant influence over the affiliate's operating and financing activities are accounted for under the cost method of accounting. We have evaluated our relationships with our affiliates and have determined that these entities are not variable interest entities. 



The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the equity method was $3,303 and $2,678 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. The equity method requires us to report our share of losses up to our equity investment amount. Cash paid for investments in affiliates is included in the Purchases of equity investment line item in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our proportional share of the respective affiliate’s earnings or losses is included in the Other (expense) income, net line item in our consolidated statements of operations. For the nine months ended January 27, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $401.



The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the cost method was $42 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. There have not been any identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant adverse effect on their fair value, and it is not practical to estimate their fair value.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



Accounting Standards Adopted



In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230) Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which reduces the diversity in practice in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. We early adopted ASU 2016-15 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. Adoption of ASU 2016-15 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.



In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Restricted Cash, which requires that the statements of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Accordingly, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts presented on the statements of cash flows. We early adopted ASU 2016-18 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and applied its provisions retrospectively. Other than the change in presentation within the statements of cash flows, the adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.



6

Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted



In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, Income Statement-Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the newly enacted federal corporate income tax rate under the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. ASU 2018-02 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2018-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test. The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. ASU 2017-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and will require adoption on a prospective basis. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party, which is an exception to the principle of comprehensive recognition of current and deferred income taxes in GAAP. This update eliminates the exception by requiring entities to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. ASU 2016-16 is effective for us on April 29, 2018. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-16 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets. ASU 2016-13 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee. This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases. ASU 2016-02 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-02 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASU 2014-09 is a comprehensive revenue recognition model that requires a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The FASB has also issued ASUs 2016-08, 2016-10, 2016-12, and 2016-20 to clarify guidance with respect to principal versus agent considerations and the identification of performance obligations and licensing, to issue guidance on certain narrow areas, and to add practical expedients. We will adopt ASU 2014-09 and related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The implementation team has completed its evaluation of the revenue arrangements, analyzed contracts to identify key provisions impacted by Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, assessed the applicable accounting, and reviewed existing accounting policies and internal controls. We are in the process of implementing appropriate changes to our business processes, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under ASC 606. As a result of the evaluation performed to date, we do not anticipate that the adoption will significantly change the timing or amount of revenue recognized, based upon our current assessment of "point in time" and "over time" revenue recognition. Therefore, we do not anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will materially impact our consolidated results of operations and financial statements, other than the additional disclosure requirements.



Note 2. Earnings Per Share ("EPS")



Basic EPS is computed by dividing income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution which may occur if securities or other obligations to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock which share in our earnings.



7

The following is a reconciliation of the net income and common share amounts used in the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for the three and nine months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Options outstanding to purchase 1,203 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $11.45 for the three months ended January 27, 2018 and 1,354 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $13.86 for the three months ended January 28, 2017 were not included in the computation of diluted (loss) earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.



Options outstanding to purchase 1,281 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $12.55 for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 and 2,380 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $13.27 for the nine months ended January 28, 2017 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.



Note 3. Share Repurchase Program 



On June 17, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program under which Daktronics, Inc. may purchase up to $40,000 of its outstanding shares of common stock. Under this program, we may repurchase shares from time to time in open market transactions and in privately negotiated transactions based on business, market, applicable legal requirements and other considerations. The repurchase program does not require the repurchase of a specific number of shares and may be terminated at any time. During the first, second and third quarter of fiscal 2018, we had no repurchases of shares of our outstanding common stock. During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we repurchased 284 shares of common stock at a total cost of $1,825, and there were no other purchases during fiscal 2017. As of January 27, 2018, we had $38,175 of remaining capacity under our current share repurchase program. 



Note 4. Segment Disclosure



We have organized our business into five segments which meet the definition of reportable segments under ASC 280-10, Segment Reporting: Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, Transportation, and International. These segments are based on the type of customer or geography and are the same as our business units.



Our Commercial business unit primarily consists of sales of our video display systems, digital billboards, Galaxy® and Fuelight™ product lines to resellers (primarily sign companies), Out-of-Home ("OOH") companies, national retailers, quick-serve restaurants, casinos and petroleum retailers. Our Live Events business unit primarily consists of sales of integrated scoring and video display systems to college and professional sports facilities and convention centers and sales of our mobile display technology to video rental organizations and other live events type venues. Our High School Park and Recreation business unit primarily consists of sales of scoring systems, Galaxy® displays and video display systems to primary and secondary education facilities. Our Transportation business unit primarily consists of sales of our Vanguard® and Galaxy® product lines to governmental transportation departments, airlines and other transportation related customers. Our International business unit consists of sales of all product lines outside the United States and Canada. In our International business unit, we focus on product lines related to integrated scoring and video display systems for sports and commercial applications, OOH advertising products, and European transportation related products. 



8

Our segment reporting presents results through gross profit less selling costs. Gross profit is net sales less cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of inventory, consumables, salaries, other employee-related costs, facilities-related costs for manufacturing locations, machinery and equipment maintenance and depreciation, site sub-contractors, warranty costs, and other service delivery expenses. Selling expenses consist primarily of salaries, other employee-related costs, travel and entertainment expenses, facilities-related costs for sales and service offices, bad debt expenses, third-party commissions and expenditures for marketing efforts, including the costs of collateral materials, conventions and trade shows, product demos, and supplies. Segment profit excludes general and administration expense, product development expense, interest income and expense, non-operating income and income tax expense. Assets are not allocated to the segments. Depreciation and amortization are allocated to each segment based on various financial measures; however, some depreciation and amortization are corporate in nature and remain unallocated. Our segments follow the same accounting policies as those described in Note 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2017. Unabsorbed manufacturing costs are allocated to the business unit benefiting most from that manufacturing location's production capabilities. Unabsorbed costs of domestic field sales and services infrastructure, including most field administrative staff, are allocated to the Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units based on cost of sales. Shared manufacturing, buildings and utilities, and procurement costs are allocated based on payroll dollars, square footage and various other financial measures.



We do not maintain information on sales by products; therefore, disclosure of such information is not practical.



9

The following table sets forth certain financial information for each of our five reporting segments for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10

No single geographic area comprises a material amount of our net sales or property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, other than the United States. The following table presents information about net sales and property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, in the United States and elsewhere:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services except with respect to our dependence on two major digital billboard customers in our Commercial business unit. 



Note 5. Marketable Securities



We have a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not used in current operations. We classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities. Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss. As it relates to fixed income marketable securities, it is not likely we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. In addition, as of January 27, 2018, we anticipate we will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities, and we have determined no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities traded in the market to estimate fair value. 



As of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, our available-for-sale securities consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Realized gains or losses on investments are recorded in our consolidated statements of operations as other income (expense), net. Upon the sale of a security classified as available-for-sale, the security’s specific unrealized gain (loss) is reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings based on the specific identification method. In the nine months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings were immaterial. 



11

All available-for-sale securities are classified as current assets, as they are readily available to support our current operating needs. The contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities as of January 27, 2018 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 6. Business Combinations



ADFLOW Acquisition



We have a contingent liability related to a prior year acquisition of ADFLOW Networks, Inc. ("ADFLOW"), on March 15, 2016. For more information related to the ADFLOW acquisition, see "Note 4. Business Combinations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 29, 2017. The fair value of such contingent consideration is estimated as of the acquisition date, and subsequently at the end of each reporting period, using forecasted cash flows. Projecting future cash flows requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding future events, conditions, or revenues being achieved under the subject contingent agreement as well as the appropriate discount rate. Such valuation techniques include one or more significant inputs that are not observable. See "Note 13. Fair Value Measurement" for more information.



Note 7. Sale of Non-Digital Division



In September 2017, we sold our non-digital division assets, primarily consisting of inventory, non-digital manufacturing equipment, patented and unpatented technology and know-how, customer lists, and backlog, net of warranty obligations and accounts payable with a net book value of $517. We recorded a gain of $1,267 on the disposal, which is included in cost of goods sold in the International business unit. 



Note 8. Goodwill



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill related to each reportable segment for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We perform an analysis of goodwill on an annual basis, and it is tested for impairment more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired. We performed our annual analysis based on the goodwill amount as of the first business day of our third quarter in fiscal 2018, which was October 29, 2017. The result of the analysis indicated no goodwill impairment existed as of that date. 



Note 9. Inventories



Inventories consisted of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12

Note 10. Receivables



Accounts receivable are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,311 and $2,610 at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. Included in accounts receivable as of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017 was $2,044 and $1,857, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.



In connection with certain sales transactions, we have entered into sales contracts with installment payments exceeding twelve months and sales-type leases. The present value of these contracts and leases are recorded as a receivable as the revenue is recognized in accordance with GAAP, and profit is recognized to the extent the present value is in excess of cost. We generally retain a security interest in the equipment or in the cash flow generated by the equipment until the contract is paid. The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $4,147 and $4,890 as of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively. Contract and lease receivables bearing annual interest rates of 4.8 to 10.0 percent are due in varying annual installments through August 2024. The face amount of long-term receivables was $4,547 and $5,201 as of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.



Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies



Litigation: We are a party to legal proceedings and claims which arise during the ordinary course of business. We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections, and other legal matters on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions. We establish accruals for those contingencies when the incurrence of a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, and we disclose the amount accrued and the amount of a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if such disclosure is necessary for our financial statements to not be misleading. We do not record an accrual when the likelihood of loss being incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, or when the loss is believed to be only reasonably possible or remote, although disclosures will be made for material matters as required by ASC 450-20, Contingencies - Loss Contingencies. Our assessment of whether a loss is reasonably possible or probable is based on our assessment and consultation with legal counsel regarding the ultimate outcome of the matter following all appeals. 



As of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, we did not believe there was a reasonable probability that any material loss for these various claims or legal actions, including reviews, inspections or other legal proceedings, if any, would be incurred. Accordingly, no material accrual or disclosure of a potential range of loss has been made related to these matters. In the opinion of management, the ultimate liability of all unresolved legal proceedings is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position, liquidity or capital resources.



Warranties: We offer a standard parts coverage warranty for periods varying from one to five years for most of our products. We also offer additional types of warranties to include on-site labor, routine maintenance and event support. In addition, the terms of warranties on some installations can vary from one to 10 years. The specific terms and conditions of these warranties vary primarily depending on the type of product sold. We estimate the costs which may be incurred under the contractual warranty obligations and record a liability in the amount of such estimated costs at the time the revenue is recognized. Factors affecting our estimate of the cost of our warranty obligations include historical experience and expectations of future conditions. We continually assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty accruals and, to the extent we experience any changes in warranty claim activity or costs associated with servicing those claims, our accrued warranty obligation is adjusted accordingly.



During fiscal 2016, we discovered a warranty issue caused by a mechanical device failure within a module for displays primarily in our OOH applications built prior to fiscal 2013. The device failure causes a visual defect in the display. Over the past three years, we have deployed preventative maintenance to sites impacted and repaired the defective devices in our repair center. When certain site locations have exceeded an acceptable failure rate, we have refurbished the display to meet customers’ expectations under contractual obligations. During fiscal 2017, 2016, and 2015 we recognized warranty expense for probable and reasonably estimated costs to remediate this issue of $1,766, $9,174, and $1,168, respectively. We recognized warranty expense related to this issue of $4,034 during the nine months ended January 27, 2018. This increased expense level is not the result of a new issue, but is primarily based on our decision to preserve our market leadership. We elected to expand the refurbishments for customer relationship purposes. As of January 27, 2018, we had $3,066 remaining in accrued warranty obligations for the estimate of probable future claims related to this issue. Although many of our contractual warranty arrangements are nearing expiration for products with this issue, we may incur additional discretionary costs to maintain customer relationships or for higher than expected failure rates. Accordingly, it is possible that the ultimate cost to resolve this matter may increase and be materially different from the amount of the current estimate and accrual.



13

Changes in our warranty obligation for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Performance guarantees: We have entered into standby letters of credit and surety bonds with financial institutions relating to the guarantee of our future performance on contracts, primarily construction type contracts. As of January 27, 2018, we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds in the amount of $13,396 and $8,330, respectively. Performance guarantees are issued to certain customers to guarantee the operation and installation of the equipment and our ability to complete a contract. These performance guarantees have various terms, which are generally one year.



Leases: We lease vehicles, office space and equipment for various global sales and service locations, including manufacturing space in the United States and China. Some of these leases, including the lease for manufacturing facilities in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, include provisions for extensions or purchase. The lease for the facilities in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, can be extended for an additional five years past its current term, which ends March 31, 2022, and it contains an option to purchase the property subject to the lease from March 31, 2017 to March 31, 2022 for $9,000, which approximates fair value. If the lease is extended, the purchase option increases to $9,090 for the year ending March 31, 2023 and $9,180 for the year ending March 31, 2024. Rental expense for operating leases was $2,568 and $2,358 for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 and January 28, 2017, respectively. 



Future minimum payments under noncancelable operating leases, excluding executory costs such as management and maintenance fees, with initial or remaining terms of one year or more consisted of the following at January 27, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Purchase commitments: From time to time, we commit to purchase inventory, advertising, cloud-based information systems, information technology maintenance and support services, and various other products and services over periods that extend beyond one year. As of January 27, 2018, we were obligated under the following conditional and unconditional purchase commitments, which included $350 in conditional purchase commitments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 12. Income Taxes



We are subject to U.S. Federal income tax as well as income taxes of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. Due to various factors and operating in multiple state and foreign jurisdictions, our effective tax is subject to fluctuation. As a result of the expiration of statutes of limitations, our fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 2017 are the remaining years open under statutes of limitations for federal and state income tax examinations. Certain subsidiaries are also subject to income tax in several foreign jurisdictions which have open tax years varying by jurisdiction beginning in fiscal 2008.



14

As of January 27, 2018, we had $3,179 of unrecognized tax benefits which would reduce our effective tax rate if recognized. 



On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) into law. The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. Some of the most significant provisions of the Tax Act impacting us include a reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time "deemed repatriation" tax on previously untaxed accumulated earnings and profits of certain subsidiaries in non-U.S. jurisdictions, and a transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system. 



GAAP accounting for income taxes requires us to record the impact of any tax law change in the quarter the law change is enacted. On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 which provides additional guidance allowing companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period, not to exceed one year from the enactment date of the Tax Act, to account for the impacts of the Tax Act in their financial statements when companies do not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete their accounting for the effects of the changes in the Tax Act. We have accounted for the impacts of the Tax Act to the extent a reasonable estimate could be made during the quarter ended January 27, 2018. We will continue to refine our estimates throughout the measurement period or until the accounting is complete, and the impact of the Tax Act may differ from these estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in estimates and assumptions that we have made. 



As a result, we have recorded a provisional reduction to our net deferred tax asset (which represents future tax benefits) of $3,679 which resulted in a corresponding increase to income tax expense for the quarter ended January 27, 2018. The revaluation of our net deferred tax asset is subject to further adjustments during the measurement period due to the complexity of determining our net deferred tax asset as of the enactment date of the Tax Act. Some of the information necessary to determine the accounting impacts of the tax rate change includes finalization of our fiscal 2018 tax return as well as refining the analysis of which existing deferred balances at the enactment date will reverse in fiscal 2018 and which deferred balances will reverse after fiscal 2018.



Additionally, we have recorded a provisional increase to income tax expense of $601 for the one-time deemed repatriation tax. The estimate of the deemed repatriation tax is based, in part, on the amount of cash and other specified assets anticipated to be held by Daktronics’ foreign subsidiaries as of April 28, 2018. As a result, the final amount may change as the amounts are finalized. We plan to pay the tax payable in installments in accordance with the Tax Act.



Note 13. Fair Value Measurement



ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. It also establishes a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The fair value hierarchy within ASC 820 distinguishes between the following three levels of inputs which may be utilized when measuring fair value.



Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.



Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly (for example, quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets not considered to be active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, or market-corroborated input).



Level 3 - Unobservable inputs supported by little or no market activity based on our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities.



15

The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values. There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities among the fair value hierarchies presented.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



A roll forward of the Level 3 contingent liability, both short- and long-term, for the nine months ended January 27, 2018 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument. There have been no changes in the valuation techniques used by us to value our financial instruments.



Cash and cash equivalents: Consists of cash on hand in bank deposits and highly liquid investments, primarily money market accounts. The fair value was measured using quoted market prices in active markets. The carrying amount approximates fair value.



Restricted cash: Consists of cash and cash equivalents held in bank deposit accounts to secure issuances of foreign bank guarantees. The fair value of restricted cash was measured using quoted market prices in active markets. The carrying amount approximates fair value.



Certificates of deposit: Consists of time deposit accounts with original maturities of less than three years and various yields. The fair value of these securities was measured based on valuations observed in less active markets than Level 1 investments from a third-party financial institution. The carrying amount approximates fair value.



U.S. Government securities: Consists of U.S. Government treasury bills, notes, and bonds with original maturities of less than three years and various yields. The fair value of these securities was measured using quoted market prices in active markets.



U.S. Government sponsored entities: Consists of Fannie Mae and Federal Home Loan Bank investment grade debt securities trading with sufficient frequency and volume to enable us to obtain pricing information on an ongoing basis. The fair value of these securities was measured based on valuations observed in less active markets than Level 1 investments. The contractual maturities of these investments vary from one month to three years.



16

Municipal bonds: Consist of investment grade municipal bonds trading with sufficient frequency and volume to enable us to obtain pricing information on an ongoing basis. The contractual maturities of these investments vary from two to three years. The fair value of these bonds was measured based on valuations observed in less active markets than Level 1 investments.



Derivatives – currency forward contracts: Consists of currency forward contracts trading with sufficient frequency and volume to enable us to obtain pricing information on an ongoing basis. The fair value of these securities was measured based on a valuation from a third-party bank. See "Note 14. Derivative Financial Instruments" for more information regarding our derivatives.



Contingent liability: Consists of the fair value of a liability measured on expected future payments relating to a business acquisition if future financial performance measures are achieved. The contingent liability was calculated by estimating the discounted present value of expected future payments for estimated performance measure attainment. To estimate future performance measure attainment, we utilized significant unobservable inputs as of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017. The unobservable inputs included management expectations and forecasts for business performance and an estimated discount rate based on current borrowing interest rates. To the extent that these assumptions changed or actual results differed from these estimates, the fair value of the contingent consideration liability could change. The contingent liability is presented in other long-term obligations in our consolidated balance sheets.



Non-recurring measurements: The fair value measurement standard also applies to certain non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. Certain long-lived assets such as goodwill, intangible assets and property and equipment are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of impairment. 



Other measurements using fair value: Some of our financial instruments, such as accounts receivable, long-term receivables, prepaid expense and other assets, costs and earnings in excess of billings and billings in excess of costs, accounts payable, warranty obligations, customer deposits, deferred revenue, and other long-term obligations, are reflected in the balance sheet at carrying value, which approximates fair value due to their short-term nature.



Note 14. Derivative Financial Instruments



We utilize derivative financial instruments to manage the economic impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on those transactions denominated in currencies other than our functional currency, which is the U.S. dollar. We enter into currency forward contracts to manage these economic risks. We account for all derivatives on the balance sheet within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges. As of January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017, we had not designated any of our derivative instruments as accounting hedges, and thus we recorded the changes in fair value in other income (expense), net.



The foreign currency exchange contracts in aggregated notional amounts in place to exchange U.S. dollars at January 27, 2018 and April 29, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of January 27, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $64 and $720, respectively, and as of April 29, 2017, there was an asset and liability of $64 and $277, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.



Note 15. Subsequent Events



On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share on our common stock payable on March 22, 2018 to holders of record of our common stock on March 12, 2018.



17

