Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)



The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within "Forward-Looking Statements" below, and in Item 1A. Risk Factors and "Forward-Looking Statements" included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Non-GAAP Financial Measures. While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures. These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Jack Black, L.L.C. ("Jack Black"), restructuring charges and amortization of intangibles. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are included within this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



This Non-GAAP information is provided as a supplement to, not as a substitute for, or as superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We use this Non-GAAP information internally to make operating decisions and believe it is helpful to investors because it allows more meaningful period-to-period comparisons of ongoing operating results. The information can also be used to perform trend analysis and to better identify operating trends that may otherwise be masked or distorted by the types of items that are excluded. This Non-GAAP information is a component in determining management's incentive compensation. Finally, we believe this information provides a higher degree of transparency. The following provides additional detail on our Non-GAAP measures:



•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Organic net sales and segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions. This information is provided because these types of fluctuations can distort the underlying change in net sales and segment profit either positively or negatively. For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions includes net sales and segment profit activity for Jack Black, which was acquired in March 2018. For the six months ended March 31, 2018, the impact of acquisitions also includes October 2017 net sales and segment profit for Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited (“Bulldog”), which was acquired in October 2016.



•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.



•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as Jack Black integration costs, restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.



•Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flows less any capital expenditures in current year.



All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.



Industry and Market Data. Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry. Our market position, market share and industry market size is based on our estimates using internal data and data from various industry analyses, our internal research and adjustments and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee accuracy or completeness. In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise. Further, our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in the "Risk Factors" section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. These and other factors could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the estimates and assumptions.



Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.



Trademarks and Trade Names. We own or have rights to use trademarks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business, which appear throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



29



Forward-Looking Statements. This document contains both historical and forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but instead reflect our expectations, estimates or projections concerning future results or events, including, without limitation, the future earnings and performance of Edgewell Personal Care Company or any of our businesses. These statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as "believe," "expect," "expectation," "anticipate," "may," "could," "intend," "belief," "estimate," "plan," "target," "predict," "likely," "will," "should," "forecast," "outlook," or other similar words or phrases. These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements. We cannot assure you that any of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Numerous factors could cause our actual results and events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation:



•We face risks associated with global economic conditions.



•Competition in our industries may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, achieve profitability, or maintain relationships with existing customers.



•Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability.



•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.



•Changes in production costs, including raw material prices, could erode our profit margins and negatively impact operating results.



•Loss of reputation of our leading brands or failure of our marketing plans could have an adverse effect on our business.



•We are subject to risks related to our international operations, including currency fluctuations, which could adversely affect our results of operations.



•We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.



•If we cannot continue to develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, we may not be able to compete effectively.



•We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits.



•A failure of a key information technology system or a breach of our information security could adversely impact our ability to conduct business.



•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.



•Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity could be limited.



•Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a reduction in net income.



•Legislative changes in applicable tax laws, policies and regulations or unfavorable resolution of tax matters may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.



•Our manufacturing facilities, supply channels or other business operations may be subject to disruption from events beyond our control.



•We have a substantial level of indebtedness and are subject to various covenants relating to such indebtedness, which could limit our discretion to operate and grow our business.



•Our business is subject to seasonal volatility.



•There can be no guarantee that we will repurchase stock.



•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.



•If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market similar products, which could adversely affect our market share and results of operations.



•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.



•Our business involves the potential for product liability and other claims against us, which could affect our results of operations and financial condition and result in product recalls or withdrawals.



•Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism or an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest.



•We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.



30



•We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses related to our pension plans.



•Certain provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and of Missouri law, could deter or delay a third-party's effort to acquire us, especially if the Board determines it is not in the best interest of our shareholders.



•The trading price of our common shares may be volatile.



•If the Separation of our household products business on July 1, 2015 (the "Separation"), together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities.



•Indemnifications under the Separation agreement with Energizer Holdings, Inc. ("Energizer") or Energizer’s inability to satisfy indemnification obligations in the future could negatively impact our financial results.



In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could significantly affect the accuracy of any such forward-looking statements. The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Additional risks and uncertainties include those detailed from time to time in our publicly filed documents, including in Item 1A. Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Overview



Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories. We have a portfolio of over 25 brands and a broad global footprint that operates in more than 50 countries. 



We conduct our business in the following four segments:



•Wet Shave consists of products sold under the Schick®, Wilkinson Sword®, Edge®, Skintimate®, Shave Guard and Personna® brands, as well as non-branded products. Our wet shave products include razor handles and refillable blades, disposable shave products and shaving gels and creams.



•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Bulldog® and Jack Black® men's skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes and Playtex® household gloves until the sale of the gloves business in October 2017. Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black and Note 3 of our Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.



•Feminine Care includes tampons, pads and liners sold under the Playtex Gentle Glide® and Sport®, Stayfree®, Carefree® and o.b.® brands.



•All Other includes infant care products, such as bottles, cups and pacifiers, under the Playtex®, OrthoPro® and Binky® brand names, as well as the Diaper Genie® and Litter Genie® disposal systems.



The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space. Competition is based upon brand perception, product performance, customer service and price. The markets are generally characterized by the frequent introduction of new products, accompanied by major advertising and promotional programs. Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, and we continue to target improved working capital management as a key business objective.



Significant Events



Acquisitions



On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States, for approximately $90.3, net of cash acquired. The acquisition will create opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black. The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018. Refer to Note 2 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.



31



On October 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Bulldog, a men's grooming and skincare products company based in the United Kingdom for $34.0, net of cash acquired. The acquisition created opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio into a growing global category where we can leverage our international geographic footprint. The acquisition was financed through available foreign cash. The results of Bulldog for the post-acquisition period are included within our results for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



Project Fuel



In February 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure. The project will incorporate our existing ZBS and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative. While we are incurring costs for Project Fuel beginning in fiscal 2018, the majority of costs and savings under Project Fuel are expected to take place during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.



In addition to the expected cost savings and improved profitability, Project Fuel is designed to strengthen our challenger culture and reinforce our consumer-centric organizational focus. It is also designed to simplify the organization and streamline ways of working in order to increase competitiveness, speed and agility, and ensure we have the skills, capabilities and investments needed to compete in a rapidly changing world. 



For further information on our restructuring projects, see Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Sale of Playtex Gloves Business



We completed the sale the Playtex® gloves business to a household products company for $19.0 on October 26, 2017. The sale allows us to better focus and utilize resources on other product lines. Total assets sold were approximately $3.1 resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9.



Executive Summary 



Following is a summary of key results for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018. Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the acquisition of Jack Black, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from those costs and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below. The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, which are Non-GAAP measures.



Second Quarter of Fiscal 2018[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



32



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes pre-tax Cost of products sold of $0.1 for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the 2013 Restructuring.



(2)Includes the impact of the Tax Act totaling $1.2 in Income tax expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 in addition to the tax impact of the other adjustments to Net Earnings and Diluted EPS - GAAP.



First Six Months of Fiscal 2018[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes pre-tax Cost of products sold of $0.4 for the first six months of fiscal 2017 associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the 2013 Restructuring.



(2)Includes the impact of the Tax Act totaling $17.4 in Income tax expense for the first six of fiscal 2018 in addition to the tax impact of the other adjustments to Net Earnings and Diluted EPS - GAAP.



33



Operating Results 



The following table presents changes in net sales for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.



Net Sales



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the second quarter of fiscal 2018, net sales were $608.1, a 0.5% decrease when compared with the prior year period. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.4% versus the prior year period. From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 7%, while increasing 4% in total International markets. Volumes were lower in North America Wet Shave, Infant Care and Feminine Care, offset in part by higher volumes in global Sun and Skin Care and International Wet Shave. Price mix was unfavorable in the quarter due to higher Sun Care returns and an increase in Wet Shave promotional spend in North America. 



For the first six months of fiscal 2018, net sales decreased 1.8%. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 4.2% versus the prior year period. From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 7%, while increasing 1% in total International markets. The decline in organic net sales was primarily due to declines in Wet Shave, primarily in North America, driven by competitive pressure and category declines and Feminine Care volume declines, partially offset by growth in Skin Care in Bulldog and Wet Ones. 



For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see "Segment Results."



Gross Profit 



Gross profit was $302.1 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to $309.6 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was 49.7%, representing a 100 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 50.7%, primarily driven by unfavorable price mix due to increased Sun Care returns and higher promotional activity in support of new Wet Shave products. Volume mix negatively impacted margin by 10 basis points, while cost mix had a 30 basis point negative impact, largely driven by unfavorable transactional currency. 



Gross profit was $502.4 during the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to $537.6 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was 46.7%, down 240 basis points as compared to the prior year period. The decline was primarily driven by lower sales volumes in Wet Shave and Feminine Care, unfavorable price mix from Wet Shave promotions and Sun Care returns and higher product costs, partially offset by favorable foreign currency impact.



Selling, General and Administrative Expense



SG&A was $103.5 in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, or 17.0% of net sales, as compared to $103.9 in the prior year period, or 17.0% of net sales. Excluding $2.6 of acquisition and integration costs associated with Jack Black and unfavorable currency translation, SG&A as a percent of net sales improved 50 basis points over the prior year. The operational improvement in SG&A was largely driven by savings generated through our Zero Based Spending ("ZBS") savings initiative, lower compensation expense and reduced headcount, partially offset by higher e-commerce investments.



34



SG&A was $200.7 in the first six months of fiscal 2018, or 18.6% of net sales, as compared to $197.7 in the prior year period, or 18.0% of net sales. The increase in the current year period was primarily related to the $2.6 of acquisition and integration costs associated with Jack Black. Excluding the $2.6 million of acquisition and integration costs associated with Jack Black, SG&A as a percent of net sales increased 40 basis points over the prior year. 



Advertising and Sales Promotion Expense



For the second quarter of fiscal 2018, A&P was $75.6, down $6.9 as compared to the prior year period. A&P spending as a percent of net sales was 12.4%, as compared to 13.5% in the prior year period. The decrease in A&P was primarily driven by reduced brand support within Feminine Care and a $4.5 reduction in spend generated by our ZBS initiative to centralize creative asset development for our global brands.



For the first six months of fiscal 2018, A&P was $124.6, down $8.5 as compared to the prior year period. A&P spending as a percent of net sales was 11.6%, as compared to 12.1% in the prior year period. The decrease was driven by higher prior year spend in Wet Shave in support of new product innovation in men's Hydro® in North America, lower Feminine Care spend compared to the prior year period and an $8.5 million reduction in spend generated by our ZBS initiative to centralize creative asset development for our global brands.



Research and Development Expense



R&D for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $15.5, compared to spending of $17.5 in the prior year period. As a percent of sales, R&D declined 40 basis points to 2.5% in the current quarter from 2.9% in the prior year period.



R&D for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $31.6, compared to $33.8 in the prior year period. As a percent of sales, R&D declined 20 basis points to 2.9% in the first six months of fiscal 2018 from 3.1% in the prior year.



Interest Expense Associated with Debt



Interest expense associated with debt for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $18.2, an increase from the prior year period expense of $17.3. For the first six months of fiscal 2018, interest expense was $36.0 compared to $34.7 in the prior year period. The increase in interest expense primarily relates to increased interest rates for variable rate debt. 



Other (Income) Expense, Net



Other (income) expense, net was income of $0.2 during the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to income of $6.6 in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. Other (income) expense, net was expense of $2.8 during the first six months of fiscal 2018, compared to income of $8.5 during first six months of fiscal 2017. The current year periods reflect the negative impact of foreign currency exchange contract gains and losses and the revaluation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet exposures.



Income Tax Provision



The effective tax rate for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 24.1% and 26.6%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first six months of 2018 and 2017 was 39.7% and 26.2%, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first six months of fiscal 2018 includes a $17.4 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act, which more than offset the lower U.S. Federal tax rate. Excluding the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, net tax expense from the Tax Act, costs related to the acquisition and integration of Jack Black and restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.8% and 26.6% for the first six months of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our adjusted effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 is expected to be in the range of 22% to 24%; however, the adjusted effective tax rate is dependent upon the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions.



35



The following table presents a reconciliation of the adjusted effective tax rate, which is a Non-GAAP measure:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes adjustments for the impact of the Tax Act, the gain on sale of the Playtex gloves business, Jack Black acquisition and integration charges and restructuring charges. See reconciliation of net earnings to adjusted net earnings.



Savings Initiatives



Our ZBS initiative was established to capture savings and establish cost-conscious spending policies consistent with our strategic needs. Net cost savings from our ZBS initiative are anticipated to be between $25 to $30 in fiscal 2018, which will be reinvested into marketing spend and our strategic growth initiatives.



In February 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure. The project will incorporate our existing ZBS and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative. While we are incurring costs for Project Fuel beginning in fiscal 2018, the majority of costs and savings under Project Fuel are expected to take place during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.



Project Fuel is expected to achieve an estimated $225 million in total gross savings through the end of the 2021 fiscal year. These savings initiatives will materially affect Supply Chain, Operations, Commercial and Sales Organizations, and Corporate G&A, and will affect all business Segments. It is expected that the savings generated will be used to fuel investments in strategic growth initiatives and brands, offset operational headwinds from inflation and other input costs, and improve our overall profitability.



In the second quarter, Project Fuel costs totaled $3.7 related to severance and consulting charges. For fiscal year 2018, Project Fuel related restructuring charges and capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $40 and $16, respectively. We estimate one-time pre-tax charges related to Project Fuel to be approximately $120 to $130 million, with an additional capital investment of $60 to $70 million through the end of the 2021 fiscal year to implement the restructuring element of Project Fuel. We anticipate that the majority of the one-time charges associated with these initiatives will be incurred by the end of the 2019 fiscal year. 



Segment Results



Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives and the amortization of intangible assets. Financial items, such as interest income and expense, are managed on a global basis at the corporate level. The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management's view on how it evaluates segment performance.



Our operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and, in most cases, a combined sales force and management teams. We apply a fully allocated cost basis, in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments. Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.



The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2017, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts. For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, see Note 16 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



36



Wet Shave



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Wet Shave net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 0.8%, inclusive of a 4.8% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $13.6, or 4.0%. Men's Systems organic net sales were flat, as sales growth from International Hydro and Private Label was largely offset by declines in North America. Women's Systems organic net sales declined low-single digits as growth from Intuition f.a.b. product and strong growth in Asia and Latin America was more than offset by overall declines in North America and Europe. Disposables organic net sales were down mid-single digits, largely driven by declines in North America, while International grew modestly. 



Wet Shave net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 decreased 1.5%, inclusive of a 3.6% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $33.3, or 5.1%. Men's Systems volumes declined as North America distribution losses were partially offset by International growth. Women's Systems declined as growth related to the launch of Intuition f.a.b. was offset by declines in North America. Disposable and Shave Prep volumes were down, primarily due to category declines in North America.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Wet Shave segment profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $69.8, down $3.4 or 4.6%, inclusive of the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $7.9, or 10.8%, primarily due to decreased gross margins driven by unfavorable impact of lower volumes, increased product costs, and unfavorable price mix from increased promotions and returns. A&P spending was lower in the quarter, reflecting the benefit of ZBS savings and the timing of spend related to new product launches in the year. 



Wet Shave segment profit for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $124.5, down $20.7 or 14.3%, inclusive of the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $26.9, or 18.5%, primarily due to lower sales volumes in Men's Systems, Disposables, and Shave Prep, unfavorable price mix following increased promotional coupon use, and unfavorable cost mix from higher materials cost and operational variances from production. The negative impacts were partially offset by lower A&P spending, mainly for Hydro branded razors. 



37



Sun and Skin Care



Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products. As a result, segment net sales and segment profit tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sun and Skin Care net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 1.1%, inclusive of a 1.6% increase due to acquisitions, a 2.5% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.7% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales increased $0.5, or 0.3%, driven by growth of Sun Care volumes in North America, largely offset by price mix from higher returns. Bulldog net sales increased over 100% compared to the prior year, and Wet Ones, due to the flu season in North America.



Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased 1.5%, inclusive of a 2.3% increase due to acquisitions, a 3.4% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale and a 1.6% increase due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales increased $2.0, or 1.0%, with strong performance in Skin Care and Grooming as growth in Bulldog and Wet Ones during the first six months were offset by declines in Hawaiian Tropic and the exit of the private label Suncare business. Banana Boat experienced slight growth sales through the first six months of fiscal 2018. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Segment profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $48.9, a decrease of $2.0 or 3.9%, inclusive of the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $2.1, or 4.1%, driven primarily by declining price mix from unfavorable returns and higher warehouse and distribution costs, offset by increased volumes in Bulldog and Wet Ones.



Segment profit for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $42.8, a decrease of $8.9 or 17.2%, inclusive of the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $6.7, or 13.0%, driven primarily by gross margin declines from unfavorable price mix due to higher returns and unfavorable costs mix, offset by increased volumes.



38



Feminine Care



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Feminine Care net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $2.9, or 3.5%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.8%due to the impact of currency movements largely driven by Tampons, specifically in the Gentle Glide and o.b. brands. Total Liners, led by Carefree, increased 5.7%, and total Pads were essentially flat in the quarter.



Feminine Care net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 decreased $9.4, or 5.5%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 5.8% driven by volume declines across Gentle Glide and o.b. branded tampons and Stayfree branded pads, partially offset by growth in Carefree branded liners.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Feminine Care segment profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $10.1, an increase of $8.5, or 531.3%, inclusive of a 12.5% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit increased $8.3, primarily as a result of lower product costs, A&P and overhead spending, partially offset by lower volumes. 



Feminine Care segment profit for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $15.1, an increase of $5.2, or 52.5%, primarily due to lower A&P and overhead spend related to the transition costs related to the shift of manufacturing from Montreal to Dover in the prior year period, partially offset by declining volumes.



39



All Other



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



All Other net sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 12.4%, inclusive of a 0.6% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $4.5, or 13.0%, primarily due to a decline in volumes of Diaper Genie® and infant cups and bottles from the Toys R Us liquidation, and distribution losses in feeding products.



All Other net sales for the first six months of fiscal 2018 decreased 5.8%, inclusive of a 0.9% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $4.5 or 6.7%, as declines in volumes of Diaper Genie® and infant cups and bottles were partially offset by growth in pet care products.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



All Other segment profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was $4.3, a decrease of $3.4, or 44.2%, inclusive of a 2.6% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased 46.8%, primarily due to a decline in volumes of Diaper Genie® and infant cups and bottles and an increase in overhead spending.



All Other segment profit for the first six months of fiscal 2018 was $11.5, a decrease of $3.1 or 21.3% compared to the prior year period, inclusive of a 2.7% increase due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased 24.0%, primarily due to lower volumes of Diaper Genie and infant cups and bottles.



General Corporate and Other Expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



40



For the second quarter of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $18.8, or 3.1% of net sales, as compared to $23.5, or 3.8% of net sales, in the prior year quarter. For the first six months of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $37.2, or 3.5% of net sales, compared to $39.9, or 3.6% of net sales, in the prior year period. For both the quarter and six month period, the decreases in general corporate expenses over the prior period were primarily related to lower share-based and deferred compensation expense, as well as savings related to our ZBS program.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-US subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material. As a result of the Tax Act signed December 22, 2017, we repatriated approximately $300 of cash from certain foreign subsidiaries during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. We utilized repatriated cash to invest in Jack Black and to reduce borrowings under the U.S. revolving credit facility. 



The counterparties to deposits consist of a number of major financial institutions. We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies. 



Our total borrowings were $1,425.7 at March 31, 2018, including $307.8 tied to variable interest rates. Our total borrowings at September 30, 2017 were $1,544.8.



As of March 31, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of $123.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the "Revolving Facility") and $8.0 of outstanding letters of credit. Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at March 31, 2018, $594.0 remains available under the Revolving Facility. At September 30, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of $245.0 under the Revolving Facility. As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under a term loan. 



We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $21.6 and $19.4 as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.



The minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2018 is $9.6; however, discretionary contributions may also be made. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, we contributed $3.9 to our pension plans.



As of March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.



Cash Flows



A summary of our cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities is provided in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



41



Operating Activities



Cash flow from operating activities was $73.4 during the first six months of fiscal 2018, as compared to $15.1 during the same period in the prior year. The improvement in operating cash flow was driven by changes in working capital, primarily in accounts receivable, inventory and other operating liabilities. Changes in cash flows from Operating activities resulting from the Tax Act include a reduction in Net Earnings from the net transition charge of $17.4, a non-cash deferred tax adjustment and an offsetting change in operating assets and liabilities from the increase in current and long-term income taxes payable. The Company expects that fiscal 2018 free cash flow will be above 100% of GAAP net earnings.



Investing Activities



Cash flow used by investing activities was $94.2 during the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to $58.5 during the same period in the prior year. The change was primarily due to the $90.3 acquisition of Jack Black in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, slightly offset by the $19.0 sale of the Playtex gloves business in the first quarter fiscal 2018. In the prior year we purchased Bulldog for $34.0. Capital expenditures were $27.6 during the first six months of fiscal 2018 and $30.4 during the same period in the prior year.



Financing Activities



Net cash used by financing activities was $249.7 during the first six months of fiscal 2018 as compared to net cash from financing activities of $282.8 during the same period in the prior year. The $33.1 decrease in net cash used by financing activities was driven by smaller net repayments related to the Revolving Facility in the current year compared to the repayment of our former Netherlands credit facility for approximately $277.0 in fiscal 2017. The decline in net debt repayments was offset by an increase in repurchases of common shares of $65.9 in the six months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year period.



Share Repurchases



During the first six months of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 2.1 shares of our common stock for $124.4. In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015. Any future share repurchases would be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as the Company deems appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors.



Commitments and Contingencies



Contractual Obligations



During the first six months of fiscal 2018, our net repayments on our revolving credit facilities were $122.0. As of March 31, 2018, future repayments of debt are as follows: $185.0 in fiscal 2019, $123.0 in fiscal 2020, $600.0 in fiscal 2021 and $500.0 in fiscal 2022.



There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.



Environmental Matters



Our operations, like those of other companies, are subject to various federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations intended to protect the public health and the environment. These regulations relate primarily to worker safety, air and water quality, underground fuel storage tanks and waste handling and disposal. It is difficult to quantify with certainty the cost of environmental matters, particularly remediation and future capital expenditures for environmental control equipment. Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. However, current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans or our understanding of underlying facts, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors. 



42



Legal and Other Contingencies



We, and our affiliates, are subject to a number of legal proceedings in various jurisdictions arising out of our operations during the ordinary course of business. Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time. The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty. We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions. We establish accruals for those contingencies when the incurrence of a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, and disclose the amount accrued and the amount of a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if such disclosure is necessary for our financial statements to not be misleading. We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated. Based upon present information, we believe that our liability, if any, arising from such pending legal proceedings, asserted legal claims and known potential legal claims, which are likely to be asserted, is not reasonably likely to be material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, taking into account established accruals for estimated liabilities.



43



