Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)



The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018 (the “2018 Annual Report”). The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs and involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed within “Forward-Looking Statements” below and in Item 1A. Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our 2018 Annual Report.



Forward-Looking Statements



This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Edgewell Personal Care Company (“Edgewell”, “we” or “our Company”) or any of our businesses. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words or phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “expectation,” “anticipate,” “may,” “could,” “intend,” “belief,” “estimate,” “plan,” “target,” “predict,” “likely,” “will,” “should,” “forecast,” “outlook,” or other similar words or phrases. These statements are not based on historical facts, but instead reflect our expectations, estimates, or projections concerning future results or events, including, without limitation, the future earnings and performance of our Company or any of our businesses. These statements are not guarantees of performance and are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated by those statements. We cannot assure you that any of our expectations, estimates or projections will be achieved. The forward-looking statements included in this report are only made as of the date of this report, and we disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as required by law. You should not place undue reliance on these statements.



In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could significantly affect the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Risks and uncertainties include those detailed from time to time in our publicly filed documents, including in Item 1A. Risk Factors of Part I of our 2018 Annual Report.



Non-GAAP Financial Measures



While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures. These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s, Inc. (“Harry’s”) acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, the Jack Black, L.L.C. (“Jack Black”) acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, the disposition of the Playtex® gloves business, and the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). Reconciliations of Non-GAAP measures are included within this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



This Non-GAAP information is provided as a supplement to, not as a substitute for, or as superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. We use this Non-GAAP information internally to make operating decisions and believe it is helpful to investors because it allows more meaningful period-to-period comparisons of ongoing operating results. Given the various significant events, including the Project Fuel restructuring and acquisition of Jack Black, we view the use of Non-GAAP measures that take into account the impact of these unique events as particularly valuable in understanding our underlying operational results and providing insights into future performance. The information can also be used to perform trend analysis and to better identify operating trends that may otherwise be masked or distorted by the types of items that are excluded. This Non-GAAP information is also a component in determining management’s incentive compensation. Finally, we believe this information provides more transparency. The following provides additional detail on our Non-GAAP measures:



•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods. Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black through February 2019 and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business through October 2018). This information is provided because these types of fluctuations can distort the underlying change in net sales and segment profit either positively or negatively.



34



•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.



•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition and integration planning costs, advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.



All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.



Industry and Market Data



Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry. Our market position, market share, and industry market size are based on our estimates using internal data and data from various industry analyses, our internal research and adjustments, and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise and have not been verified by any independent source. Further, our estimates and assumptions involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed in the “Risk Factors” section of our 2018 Annual Report. These, and other factors, could cause results to differ materially from those expressed in the estimates and assumptions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this data.



Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.



Trademarks and Trade Names



We own or have rights to use trademarks and trade names that we use in conjunction with the operation of our business, which appear throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.



Significant Events



Acquisitions



On May 9, 2019, we announced that we have entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “ Merger Agreement”) under which we will combine with Harry’s in a cash and stock transaction that values Harry’s at $1,370 (the “Merger”). Under the terms of the Merger Agreement and based on our closing share price on May 8, 2019, approximately 79% of the total value of the transaction will be paid in cash and 21% will be paid in shares of our common stock. The Merger has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both our Company and Harry’s and is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of the 2020 calendar year, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and receipt of regulatory clearances. We intend to finance the Merger through a combination of cash on our balance sheet, net new debt and equity. Bank of America Merrill Lynch has provided committed financing in connection with the Merger. The Merger of Edgewell and Harry’s brings together complementary capabilities to create a next-generation consumer products platform with an expansive runway for accelerated topline growth and enhanced value creation. We have incurred costs associated with the acquisition of Harry’s totaling $1.8 in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.



On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired. The acquisition will create opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black. The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within our results since the acquisition date. Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.



35



Impairment



During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we determined a triggering event had occurred as a result of a decline in our market capitalization after a decline in the Company’s share price during the quarter. We performed an interim impairment analysis using financial information through June 30, 2019 and forecasts for cash flows developed using our three-year strategic plan. The interim impairment review was performed on all long-lived assets, including definite lived intangibles, all reporting units, and indefinite-lived intangible assets. The results of the impairment review indicated the carrying value of the goodwill of the Wet Shave and Infant Care reporting units were greater than their respective fair values, resulting in a non-cash goodwill impairment of $358.0 and $29.0, respectively. Additionally, the carrying value of the Wet Ones and Diaper Genie trade names were greater than the fair values and resulted in non-cash impairments of the indefinite-lived intangible assets of $87.0 and $75.0, respectively. Refer to Note 7 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on the interim impairment test. We will continue to evaluate the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter as a part of our annual impairment review on July 1.



Refer to additional discussion around goodwill and intangible asset valuation in our 2018 Annual Report.



Project Fuel



In February 2018, we announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will provide the necessary catalyst for further re-investment in the Company’s growth objectives while enabling us to achieve our desired future state operations. 



Initial costs incurred for Project Fuel were related to efforts to fully define the scope and reach of the project. In addition, the Company has incurred global severance costs related to the reduction of overhead. The Company has incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018 and for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and expects to incur additional costs and realize additional savings during the remainder of fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021. 



For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Feminine and Infant Care Evaluation Costs



In February 2019, we began exploring strategic alternatives for the Feminine Care and Infant Care businesses, including the potential sale of one or both businesses. We concluded our strategic review of the Feminine Care business and have elected to retain the business at this time and have determined that there is currently more opportunity for value creation and de-leveraging by retaining the business given improving business trends and outlook. We continue to explore strategic alternatives for the Infant Care business. We incurred $0.5 and $1.5 during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, of advisory expenses in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses. The costs are related to consulting fees for the analysis of strategic alternatives of the Feminine and Infant Care businesses and are included in Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 



Sun Care Reformulation Costs



As a result of discussions with one of our suppliers during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we made certain supply chain and procurement decisions, including implementing a raw material substitution due to anticipated regulatory changes related to European Union Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals, establishing a European Chemical Agency (“REACH”), that affect the supply chain of select Sun Care products. To align with our raw material selection process, we chose to make these changes at that time, in advance of Sun Care season, to minimize potential impact to our distribution channels during the peak sales period. We incurred $1.0 and $1.5 in Sun Care reformulation costs during the three and nine months ending June 30, 2019, respectively, and expect to incur additional charges over the remainder of fiscal 2019 related to these supply chain decisions. The costs associated with the Sun Care reformulation are included in Costs of products sold on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 



Sale of Playtex Gloves Business



On October 26, 2017, the Company finalized its sale of the Playtex gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0. The sale was finalized on October 26, 2017. The sale provides the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves. The strategic sale of the Playtex gloves business allows the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines. Total assets sold were $3.7, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.3 in fiscal 2018. Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the sale of the Playtex gloves business. 



36



Executive Summary 



The following is a summary of key results for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018. Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by impairment charges, restructuring activities, Harry’s acquisition costs, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, Sun Care reformulation costs, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expenses, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below. The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, both of which are Non-GAAP measures.



Third Quarter of Fiscal 2019[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)Includes pre-tax SG&A of $1.8 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 for costs associated with the acquisition of Harry’s.



(3)Includes pre-tax SG&A of $0.5 for the three months ended June 30, 2019, associated with consulting costs for the Company to evaluate segments.



(4)Includes pre-tax Cost of products sold of $1.0 for the three months ended June 30, 2019, associated with supply chain changes on select Sun Care products.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(6)GAAP EPS was calculated using basic weighted average shares outstanding due to a net loss. Adjusted diluted EPS was calculated using diluted weighted average shares outstanding.



37



First Nine Months of Fiscal 2019[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)Includes pre-tax SG&A of $1.8 for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 for costs associated with the acquisition of Harry’s.



(3)Includes pre-tax SG&A of $1.5 for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, associated with consulting costs for the Company to evaluate segments.



(4)Includes pre-tax Cost of products sold of $1.5 for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, associated with supply chain changes on select Sun Care products.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(6)Includes pre-tax SG&A of $0.9 for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, associated with a settlement with an investor.



(7)GAAP EPS was calculated using basic weighted average shares outstanding due to a net loss. Adjusted diluted EPS was calculated using diluted weighted average shares outstanding.



(8)Includes Income tax expense of $4.7 in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 related to the fiscal 2018 one-time transition tax from the Tax Act. The impact of the Tax Act totaling $17.4 in Income tax expense for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 in addition to the tax impact of the other adjustments to Net Earnings and Diluted EPS - GAAP.



38



Operating Results 



The following table presents changes in net sales for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.



Net Sales



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the third quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $609.2, a 1.8% decrease when compared with the prior year quarter. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 0.3% driven by declines in the Wet Shave and Feminine Care businesses, partly offset by increased organic sales in the Sun and Skin Care business. Organic net sales declined in North America by 2.7% while International organic net sales grew 4.2%. Lower sales in North America were driven by declines in Wet Shave, due to distribution losses, lower pricing and an unfavorable comparison to the prior year launch of Intuition f.a.b.®, partly offset by growth in Sun and Skin Care. Sun and Skin Care growth reflected favorable timing of promotions and returns and the benefit from the shift in timing of the Easter holiday, offset by lower volumes, which were impacted by lower consumption rates, due to unfavorable weather across most markets. In International markets, organic sales increased in Wet Shave, benefiting from a favorable comparison to prior year sales in Japan, and in Sun and Skin Care, driven by strong Bulldog sales. 



For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, net sales decreased 4.9%. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black, the Playtex gloves sale, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 4.3% versus the prior year period. From a geographic perspective, organic net sales in North America declined 6.1% while International organic net sales decreased 1.1%. The decline in organic net sales was across all segments in North America and International Wet Shave mainly in Europe, driven by competitive pressure in key retailers and the anniversary of prior year product launches and promotions. 



For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see “Segment Results.”



Gross Profit 



Gross profit was $292.2 during the third quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to $301.7 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was 48.0%, representing a 60 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 48.6%. Excluding $1.0 of costs associated with the Sun Care reformulation, gross margin as a percent of net sales was 48.1%. The decline was driven primarily by unfavorable price mix due to increased price and trade investments, mostly in Wet Shave, unfavorable cost mix due to rising energy costs and maintenance spend and lower absorption rates from lower volumes across Sun and Skin Care and Feminine Care.



Gross profit was $736.6 during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to $802.1 in the prior year period. Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was 45.7%, down 160 basis points as compared to the prior year period. Excluding $1.5 of costs associated with the Sun Care reformulation, gross margin as a percent of net sales was 45.8%. A portion of the decline was a result of unfavorable price mix from price decreases for Wet Shave and Feminine Care in North America partially offset by favorable Sun and Skin Care returns. Gross margin was also impacted by lower volumes in Wet Shave due to competitive pressures, as well as unfavorable cost mix in Wet Shave and All Other which was partially offset by improvements in Sun and Skin Care and in Feminine Care. 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense



SG&A was $94.8 in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, or 15.6% of net sales, as compared to $101.3 in the prior year period, or 16.3% of net sales. The operational improvement in SG&A was largely driven by Project Fuel savings and lower equity compensation expense.



39



SG&A was $280.2 in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, or 17.4% of net sales, as compared to $303.5 in the prior year period, or 17.9% of net sales. The operational improvement in SG&A was largely driven by savings generated through our Project Fuel, lower compensation expense, and prior year one-time expenses such as severance and asset write offs. These savings were offset in part by higher e-commerce investments. 



Advertising and Sales Promotion Expense



For the third quarter of fiscal 2019, A&P was $91.8, down $13.5 as compared to the prior year period. A&P as a percent of net sales was 15.1%, as compared to 17.0% in the prior year period. The decrease in A&P was primarily driven by lower spending in Wet Shave and Feminine Care as compared to prior year due to a decrease in new product releases and a shift in spend to trade spend this fiscal quarter. 



For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, A&P was $191.3, down $38.6 as compared to the prior year period. A&P as a percent of net sales was 11.9%, as compared to 13.5% in the prior year period. The decrease in A&P was primarily driven by lower spending in Wet Shave and Feminine Care as compared to prior year due to a decrease in new product releases and a shift in spend to trade spend this fiscal quarter. The Company had increased A&P spend for the Skin Care and Grooming brands including Bulldog, Hydro grooming, and Jack Black as well as o.b.® tampons to support a new product launch.



Research and Development Expense



Research and development expense (“R&D”) for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $12.9, compared to $14.9 in the prior year period. As a percent of sales, R&D was 2.1% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to 2.4% in the prior year period. The reduction in R&D as a percent of sales compared to the prior year is primarily driven by timing of spend and product development and reduced headcount.



R&D for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $39.5, compared to $46.5 in the prior year period. As a percent of sales, R&D declined 30 basis points to 2.4% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from 2.7% in the prior year. The reduction in R&D as a percent of sales compared to the prior year is primarily driven by timing of spend and product development and reduced headcount.



Interest Expense Associated with Debt



Interest expense associated with debt for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $15.6 compared to $16.5 in the prior year quarter. For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, interest expense was $48.0 compared to $52.5 in the prior year period. The decline in interest expense was the result of lower average outstanding debt compared to the prior year. 



Other Expense, Net



Other expense, net was $2.7 in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $1.9 in the prior year period. Other expense, net was $1.3 during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to $1.2 during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Both periods reflect the reclassification of the pension credit from Cost of products sold and SG&A to Other expense, net. The impact of the pension benefit was $0.6 and $1.8 in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively. The impact of the pension benefit was $1.6 and $5.1 in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018. The remaining activity was related to foreign currency exchange contract gains and losses and the revaluation of non-functional currency balance sheet exposures.



Income Tax Provision



The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was 4.1% compared to 40.2% in the prior year period. The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 includes a $549.0 impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, a portion of which are non-deductible, resulting in a lower tax benefit on a net loss. The rate was also unfavorably impacted by a $4.7 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act. The effective tax rate for the prior period includes a $17.4 increase in tax expense related to net charges from the Tax Act. Excluding the tax impact of impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition costs, advisory expenses incurred in connection with the evaluation of the Feminine Care and Infant Care businesses, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expenses, the impact of the Tax Act, and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the adjusted effective tax rate was 24.4% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018. The adjusted effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 is expected to be in the range of 23.5% to 25.5%; however, both the effective tax rate and the adjusted effective tax rate are dependent upon the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions.



40



The following table presents a reconciliation of the adjusted effective tax rate, which is a Non-GAAP measure:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes adjustments for the impact of the Tax Act, impairment charges, restructuring charges, Harry’s acquisition costs, Feminine and Infant Care evaluation costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, investor settlement expense, and the gain on sale of the Playtex gloves business. See reconciliation of net earnings to adjusted net earnings.



Savings Initiatives



We expect Project Fuel will generate $225 to $240 in total annual gross savings by the end of the 2021 fiscal year. It is expected that the savings generated will be used to fuel investments and brand building in strategic growth initiatives, offset anticipated operational headwinds from inflation and other rising input costs, and improve our overall profitability and cash flow.



To implement the restructuring element of Project Fuel, we estimated one-time pre-tax charges to be approximately $130 to $140, with an additional capital investment of $60 to $70 through the end of fiscal year 2021. 



Project Fuel restructuring charges were $8.9 and $42.8 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, bringing cumulative Project Fuel restructuring charges to $82.7. Project Fuel restructuring charges totaled $15.9 and $19.6 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively. Additionally, capital expenditures for Project Fuel were $9.5 and $22.4 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, bringing cumulative capital expenditures for Project Fuel to $24.7. Project Fuel related savings were approximately $33 and $85 for the three and nine months ending June 30, 2019, respectively, bringing cumulative savings to approximately $100. 



For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Segment Results



The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts. For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, refer to Note 15 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 



Wet Shave



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Wet Shave net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 3.9%, inclusive of a 2.2% decline due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $5.8, or 1.7%, as compared to the prior year, as volume growth, primarily in Asia Pacific, was more than offset by the impact of lower pricing and unfavorable product mix in North America. Total international organic net sales increased 4.9%, with growth in Men's and Women's System's and Disposables, and was largely attributable to Japan and the comparison to the prior year period which included significant inventory reductions. North America organic net sales declined 8.9% reflecting on-going competitive intensity, cycling of the prior year period's launch of Intuition f.a.b. and Hydro Sense®, and the impact of lower pricing on our Men's and Women's Systems products.



41



Wet Shave net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased 7.2%, inclusive of a 2.2% decline due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $48.7, or 5.0%. North America organic net sales was down 9.1%, while International organic net sales decreased 1.4%. Volumes declined in North America across Men’s and Women’s Systems and Disposables due to competitive pressures in the Men’s and Disposables category, and the impact of the launch of Intuition f.a.b. in the prior year for Women’s systems. Additionally, North America experienced unfavorable price mix caused by a price decrease in Men’s and Women’s Systems. International volumes increased in Women’s Systems and Disposables, while Men’s Systems had declines across all markets. Internationally, unfavorable price mix was caused by increased trade spend in Men’s Systems and Disposables. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Wet Shave segment profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $54.1, down $0.9, or 1.6%, inclusive of the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit increased $0.8, or 1.5%, as lower spending and realized Project Fuel savings more than offset the impact of unfavorable pricing related to a price decrease in North America and higher product costs. 



Wet Shave segment profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $164.8, down $12.8 or 7.2%, inclusive of the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $7.7, or 4.3%, primarily due to lower sales volumes across all categories in North America, and Men’s systems in International markets. Unfavorable price mix was the result of price decreases in North America and Europe and increased promotional investments in Asia Pacific. Unfavorable cost mix resulted from product mix, higher warehousing and distribution costs in Europe, and higher energy and maintenance spend. The gross margin declines were partially offset by lower A&P and overheads in support of the Wet Shave segment across all brands.



Sun and Skin Care



Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of Sun Care products. As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sun and Skin Care net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 3.4%, inclusive of a 0.9% decline due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales increased $7.0, or 4.3% driven by growth in all geographic regions with the exception of Asia Pacific. North America organic net sales increased 5.0%, as the expected shift in phasing of sales to this fiscal quarter due to the later Easter holiday this year, as well as lower returns this fiscal quarter, more than offset the impact of weaker category consumption trends related largely to unfavorable early season weather. Organic net sales in International markets increased 1.8%, driven by growth in the Hawaiian Tropic and Bulldog brands.



Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased 1.6%, inclusive of a 4.6% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, a 0.3% decline due to the Playtex gloves sale, and a 1.3% decline due to currency movements. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, the Playtex gloves sale and currency movements, organic net sales decreased $5.4, or 1.4%, with volume declines primarily in North America Sun Care impacted by the Sun Care reformulation project. International Sun Care volume declines were more than offset by increased Bulldog sales. Sun Care had favorable price mix related to favorable returns compared to same period in the prior year and timing of promotions.



42



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Segment profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $42.2, an increase of $8.3 or 24.5%, inclusive of the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit increased $8.5, or 25.1%, as the benefit from lower product returns and lower product costs more than offset the impact of higher A&P spending in grooming.



Segment profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $82.1, an increase of $5.8 or 7.6%, inclusive of the impact of the Jack Black acquisition, the Playtex gloves sale, and currency movements. Excluding the impact of the Jack Black acquisition, the Playtex gloves sale, and currency movements, organic segment profit increased $1.2, or 1.6%, driven primarily by gross margin improvements from favorable price mix and cost mix for Sun Care products, partially offset by volume declines. A&P and overheads increased as a result of increased support for Grooming products including Bulldog and Hydro Grooming.



Feminine Care



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Feminine Care net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $3.2, or 3.8%, inclusive of a 0.4% decline due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.4%, driven by volume declines across all lines, with the exception of o.b. tampons, which benefited due to the launch of organic o.b. tampons, and Carefree® liners. Price mix was unfavorable due to increased trade spend.



Feminine Care net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased $16.8, or 6.8%, inclusive of a 0.3% decline due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 6.5% driven by volume declines in Playtex Gentle Glide® branded tampons and Stayfree® branded pads, partially offset by growth in Playtex Sport and o.b. tampons. Price mix was unfavorable due to increased trade spend investment.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Feminine Care segment profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $15.5, an increase of $4.5, or 41.0%, inclusive of a 1.7% decline due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit increased $4.7, or 42.7%, driven by lower A&P spending, resulting from a shift to trade promotion spending, and lower product costs.



Feminine Care segment profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $36.7, an increase of $11.0, or 42.8%, inclusive of a decrease of 1.9% for currency movements. The decline was primarily due to lower A&P related to a shift to higher trade spend, favorable cost mix driven by favorable production volumes, and lower overheads. These gains were partially offset by lower gross margins including volume declines in Playtex Gentle Glide tampons and Stayfree pads, and unfavorable price mix from the shift to increased trade spend.



43



All Other



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



All Other net sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 1.2%, inclusive of a 0.6% decline from the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 0.6% compared to the prior year quarter as sales increased in Diaper Genie® and cups and mealtime products related to the Paw Patrol® launch which were more than offset by declines in Pet Care.



All Other net sales for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased 2.8%, inclusive of a 0.7% decline due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $2.0 or 2.1%, as declines in volumes of Diaper Genie and infant bottles and unfavorable price mix from Pet Care products were partially offset by growth in infant cups and mealtime products.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



All Other segment profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $3.6, a decrease of $1.8, or 33.3%, inclusive of a decrease of 1.8% for currency movements. The decline is driven primarily by unfavorable product mix of Diaper Genie products and higher product costs. 



All Other segment profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $10.8, a decrease of $6.0 or 35.7%, compared to the prior year period, inclusive of a 2.4% decline due to the impact of currency movements. Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased 33.3%, primarily due to unfavorable cost mix from higher materials and warehousing and distribution costs, and unfavorable product mix. These declines were partially offset by lower A&P and overheads in support of the All Other segment. 



General Corporate and Other Expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



44



For the third quarter of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $13.1, or 2.2% of net sales, compared to $17.7, or 2.9% of net sales, in the prior year quarter. For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $43.5, or 2.7% of net sales, compared to $55.6, or 3.3% of net sales, in the prior year period. Corporate expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 declined due to savings generated through Project Fuel and lower share-based compensation expense. For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the declines in corporate expense were driven by savings generated through Project Fuel, including lower compensation expense and prior year one-time expenses such as severance and asset write offs.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



At June 30, 2019, substantially all our cash balances were located outside the U.S. Given our extensive international operations, a significant portion of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-U.S. subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.



The counterparties to deposits consist of several major financial institutions. We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies. 



Our total borrowings were $1,237.6 at June 30, 2019, including $125.0 tied to variable interest rates. Our total borrowings at September 30, 2018 were $1,300.2.



As of June 30, 2019, we had outstanding borrowings of $125.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the “Revolving Facility”) and $8.5 of outstanding letters of credit. Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at June 30, 2019, $591.5 remains available under the Revolving Facility. We expect to refinance the Revolving Facility prior to its maturity date in June 2020. At September 30, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of $7.0 under the Revolving Facility. 



As of September 30, 2018, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under the term loan due April 2019 (the “Term Loan”). On February 6, 2019, we made a $185.0 prepayment to retire the Term Loan. We funded the payment through additional borrowing on the Revolving Facility.



We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $12.6 and $8.2 as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.



In connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into a commitment letter with Bank of America Merrill Lynch pursuant to which Bank of America Merrill Lynch committed to provide a senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $400.0, a senior secured term loan A facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $400.0 and a senior secured term loan B facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $800.0 in order to, among other things, finance our obligations under the Merger Agreement and certain related transactions. The effectiveness of such credit facilities is subject to the occurrence of customary closing conditions, including the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. 



Historically, we have generated and expect to continue to generate positive cash flows from operations. Our cash flows are affected by the seasonality of our Sun Care products, resulting in higher net sales and increased cash generated in the second and third quarter each year. We believe our cash on hand, cash flows from operations and available borrowing under the Revolving Facility will be sufficient to satisfy our future working capital requirements, interest payments, research and development activities, capital expenditures, and other financing requirements for at least the next 12 months. 



Short-term financing needs primarily consist of working capital requirements, principal, and interest payments on our long-term debt. Long-term financing needs will depend largely on potential growth opportunities, including acquisition activity and repayment or refinancing of our long-term debt obligations. We may, from time-to-time, seek to repurchase shares of our common stock. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Our long-term liquidity may be influenced by our ability to borrow additional funds, renegotiate existing debt, and raise equity under terms that are favorable to us.



The expected minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2019 is $7.3; however, discretionary contributions may also be made. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019 we contributed $4.7 to our pension plans.



As of June 30, 2019, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.



45



Cash Flows



A summary of our cash flow activities is provided in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



Cash flow from operating activities was $98.2 during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to cash from operating activities of $181.5 during the same period in the prior year. The decline in operating cash flow in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the prior year period was primarily driven by working capital changes, including the build of the inventory balance in North America related to the Sun Care reformulation project and the build of inventory in Europe in preparation of Brexit. Accounts payable declined related to the timing of payments at year end and lower current period expenses.



Investing Activities



Cash flow used by investing activities was $26.9 during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to cash used by investing activities of $101.1 during the same period in the prior year. The change was primarily due to the acquisition of Jack Black for $90.3 in the prior year period, offset by the sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018 for $19.0. Capital expenditures totaled $38.7 during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and included $22.4 of capital expenditures in support of Project Fuel, compared to $41.8 during the same period in the prior year. Additionally, investing cash inflows of $9.0 and $7.2 were reclassified from operating activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively, as a result of collections on the deferred purchase price of accounts receivables sold. 



Financing Activities



Net cash used by financing activities was $57.5 during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to net cash used by financing activities of $366.8 during the same period in the prior year. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we had $118.0 of additional borrowings under the Revolving Facility, offset by repayment of the Term Loan for $185.0. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, net borrowings on the Revolving Facility decreased $245.0 and $124.4 of cash was used for treasury stock repurchases.



Share Repurchases



During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock. We have 10.0 shares of common stock available for repurchase in the future under the Board’s authorization to repurchase our common stock. Any future share repurchases may be made in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, in such amounts and at such times as we deem appropriate based upon prevailing market conditions, business needs and other factors.



Commitments and Contingencies



Contractual Obligations



During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, our net borrowings on our revolving credit facilities were $118.0. As of June 30, 2019, future minimum repayments of debt are as follows: $0.0 in fiscal 2019, $125.0 in fiscal 2020, $600.0 in fiscal 2021, and $500.0 in fiscal 2022. 



There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our 2018 Annual Report.



46



