PART II - OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 



We, and our affiliates, are subject to a number of legal proceedings in various jurisdictions arising out of our operations during the ordinary course of business. Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time. The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty. We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions. We establish accruals for those contingencies when the incurrence of a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, and disclose the amount accrued and the amount of a reasonably possible loss in excess of the amount accrued, if such disclosure is necessary for our financial statements to not be misleading. We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated. Based upon present information, we believe that our liability, if any, arising from such pending legal proceedings, asserted legal claims and known potential legal claims, which are likely to be asserted, is not reasonably likely to be material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, taking into account established accruals for estimated liabilities.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a detailed discussion of risk factors that could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results or our financial condition. The risk factors included below are revised from versions included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.



44



Legislative changes in applicable tax laws, policies and regulations or unfavorable resolution of tax matters may result in additional tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.



Our businesses are subject to taxation in the U.S. and multiple foreign jurisdictions. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex and the impact of the Tax Act is subject to change as a result of changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, legislative action to address questions that arise from the Tax Act, changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations, updates or changes to estimates of current year earnings, exchange rates and other factors. In addition, international tax reform remains a priority with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Action Plan on Base Erosion & Profit Shifting and other proposed foreign jurisdictional tax law changes. Given the uncertainty of the possible changes and their potential interdependency, we are unable to determine whether the net consolidated impact of changes in global tax legislation would be positive or negative. However, the impact of any legislative tax law, policy or regulation changes by federal, state and local and foreign authorities may result in additional tax liabilities which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.



Significant estimation and judgment is required in determining our provisions for taxes in the U.S. and jurisdictions outside the U.S. In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax positions are defensible and our tax provision estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. The unfavorable resolution of any audits or litigation could have an adverse impact on future operating results and our financial condition. More aggressive and assertive tax collection policies, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S., may increase the costs of resolving tax issues and enhance the likelihood that we will have increased tax liabilities going forward.



We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.



In the normal course of business, we may initiate projects which change our footprint or our operations in order to gain efficiencies and reduce costs. The execution of cost savings initiatives may present a number of significant risks, including:



•actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to customers;



•the failure to preserve adequate internal controls as we restructure our general and administrative functions, including our information technology and financial reporting infrastructure;



•the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise;



•loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core product lines;



•diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and



•the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees while implementing benefit changes and reductions in the workforce.



Because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these initiatives and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 



In fiscal 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure. The project will incorporate our Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative. The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce growth and margin improvement objectives. Project Fuel follows on several years of productivity initiatives, as well as the initiatives launched with the overall Separation program. The achievement of our savings targets depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize savings opportunities. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected.



45



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)89 shares purchased during the quarter relate to the surrender to the Company of shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock equivalent awards.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(3)Includes $0.02 per share of brokerage fee commissions.



(4)In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to ten million shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015.



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.



None.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.



Not applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



None.



46



Item 6. Exhibits.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



47



