PART II OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business. See Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 7 - Commitments, Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1A.Risk Factors



In addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2017 which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results, and the following:



Future changes in U.S. tax law could adversely affect us or our affiliates.



On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed into law a sweeping tax reform bill known as the “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” (“Tax Act”). The effects of the Tax Act are not yet entirely clear and will depend on, among other things, additional regulatory and administrative guidance, as well as any statutory technical corrections that are subsequently enacted. While the Tax Act reduces the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate generally applicable to U.S. corporations, the Tax Act could nevertheless have a significant adverse effect on the U.S. federal income taxation of our and our subsidiaries’ operations, including by limiting or eliminating various deductions or credits (including interest expense deductions and deductions relating to employee compensation), imposing taxes with respect to certain accumulated earnings of non-U.S. entities on a current basis, changing the timing of the recognition of income or its character and imposing additional corporate taxes under certain circumstances to combat perceived base erosion issues, among other changes. 



The Tax Act, or any related, similar or amended legislation or other changes in U.S. federal income tax laws, could adversely affect the U.S. federal income taxation of our and our affiliates’ ongoing operations and may also adversely affect the integration efforts relating to, and potential synergies from, past strategic transactions. Any such changes and related consequences could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.



Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



 Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers



The following table summarizes the number of shares of common stock we purchased from participants in our equity incentive plans as well as repurchases of common stock authorized by the Board of Directors. As provided by the Company’s equity incentive plans, (a) vested options outstanding may be exercised through surrender to the Company of option shares or vested options outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans to satisfy the applicable aggregate exercise price (and any withholding tax) required to be paid upon such exercise and (b) the withholding tax requirements related to the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units and market condition-based share units may be satisfied by the surrender of shares of the Company’s common stock.



Purchases of Equity Securities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)The Company's Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase up to such number of shares as shall equal the dilutive effects of any equity based award granted during such fiscal year under the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan and the number of shares exercised through stock option awards during such fiscal year. These amounted to 2,030 shares, repurchased at an average price of $67.25.



(2)On August 24, 2017, the Company prepaid $100 million, pursuant to an ASR agreement with a major financial institution, and received on August 29, 2017, an initial delivery of 1,278,976 shares. No shares were received pursuant to the ASR during the current quarter. On January 9, 2018, the ASR was settled, and the Company received an additional 216,738 shares.



(3)On November 8, 2017, the Company announced the establishment of a $100 million stock repurchase authorization, with no expiration date. The authorization is in addition to the existing stock repurchase programs.



Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures



Not applicable.



36

ITEM 6.EXHIBITS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



37

