Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) covers: (i) the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 and (ii) the financial condition as of September 30, 2019. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements (the “Audited Consolidated Financial Statements”) and related notes for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements (the “Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements”) and related notes appearing elsewhere herein. This MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions associated with these statements.



Except as otherwise indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, (a) the terms “EVERTEC,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “our Company” and “the Company” refer to EVERTEC, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, (b) the term “Holdings” refers to EVERTEC Intermediate Holdings, LLC, but not any of its subsidiaries and (c) the term “EVERTEC Group” refers to EVERTEC Group, LLC and its predecessor entities and their subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, including the operations of its predecessor entities prior to the Merger (as defined below). EVERTEC Inc.’s subsidiaries include Holdings, EVERTEC Group, EVERTEC Dominicana, SAS, Evertec Chile Holdings SpA (formerly known as Tecnopago SpA), Evertec Chile SpA (formerly known as EFT Group SpA), Evertec Chile Global SpA (formerly known as EFT Global Services SpA), Evertec Chile Servicios Profesionales SpA (formerly known as EFT Servicios Profesionales SpA), , EFT Group S.A., Tecnopago España SL, Paytrue S.A., Caleidon, S.A., Evertec Brasil Solutions Informática Ltda. (formerly known as Paytrue Solutions Informática Ltda.), EVERTEC Panamá, S.A., EVERTEC Costa Rica, S.A. (“EVERTEC CR”), EVERTEC Guatemala, S.A., Evertec Colombia, SAS (formerly known as Processa, SAS), EVERTEC USA, LLC and EVERTEC México Servicios de Procesamiento, S.A. de C.V. Neither EVERTEC nor Holdings conducts any operations other than with respect to its indirect or direct ownership of EVERTEC Group.



Executive Summary



EVERTEC is a leading full-service transaction processing business in Latin America and the Caribbean, providing a broad range of merchant acquiring, payment services and business process management services. According to the August 2018 Nilson Report, we are one of the largest merchant acquirers in Latin America based on total number of transactions and we believe we are the largest merchant acquirer in the Caribbean and Central America. We serve 26 countries in the region from our base in Puerto Rico. We manage a system of electronic payment networks that process more than two billion transactions annually, and offer a comprehensive suite of services for core bank processing and cash processing in Puerto Rico and technology outsourcing in all the regions we serve. In addition, we own and operate the ATH network, one of the leading debit networks in Latin America. We serve a diversified customer base of leading financial institutions, merchants, corporations and government agencies with “mission-critical” technology solutions that enable them to issue, process and accept transactions securely. We believe our business is well-positioned to continue to expand across the fast-growing Latin American region.



We are differentiated, in part, by our diversified business model, which enables us to provide our varied customer base with a broad range of transaction-processing services from a single source across numerous channels and geographic markets. We believe this capability provides several competitive advantages that will enable us to continue to penetrate our existing customer base with complementary new services, win new customers, develop new sales channels and enter new markets. We believe these competitive advantages include:



•Our ability to provide competitive products; 



•Our ability to provide in one package a range of services that traditionally had to be sourced from different vendors; 



•Our ability to serve customers with disparate operations in several geographies with technology solutions that enable them to manage their business as one enterprise; and 



•Our ability to capture and analyze data across the transaction processing value chain and use that data to provide value-added services that are differentiated from those offered by pure-play vendors that serve only one portion of the transaction processing value chain (such as only merchant acquiring or payment services). 



Our broad suite of services spans the entire transaction processing value chain and includes a range of front-end customer-facing solutions such as the electronic capture and authorization of transactions at the point-of-sale, as well as back-end support services such as the clearing and settlement of transactions and account reconciliation for card issuers. These include: (i) merchant acquiring services, which enable point of sales (“POS”) and e-commerce merchants to accept and process electronic methods of payment such as debit, credit, prepaid and electronic benefit transfer (“EBT”) cards; (ii) payment processing 



24

services, which enable financial institutions and other issuers to manage, support and facilitate the processing of credit, debit, prepaid, automated teller machines (“ATM”) and EBT card programs; and (iii) business process management solutions, which provide “mission-critical” technology solutions such as core bank processing, as well as IT outsourcing and cash management services to financial institutions, corporations and governments. We provide these services through scalable, end-to-end technology platforms that we manage and operate in-house and that generate significant operating efficiencies that enable us to maximize profitability. 



We sell and distribute our services primarily through a proprietary direct sales force with established customer relationships. We continue to pursue joint ventures and merchant acquiring alliances. We benefit from an attractive business model, the hallmarks of which are recurring revenue, scalability, significant operating margins and moderate capital expenditure requirements. Our revenue is predominantly recurring in nature because of the mission-critical and embedded nature of the services we provide. In addition, we generally negotiate multi-year contracts with our customers. We believe our business model should enable us to continue to grow our business organically in the primary markets we serve without significant incremental capital expenditures. 



Corporate Background



EVERTEC, Inc. ("EVERTEC", formerly known as Carib Latam Holdings, Inc.) is a Puerto Rico corporation organized in April 2012. Our main operating subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, LLC (formerly known as EVERTEC, LLC and EVERTEC, Inc., hereinafter “EVERTEC Group”), was organized in Puerto Rico in 1988. EVERTEC Group was formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Popular. On September 30, 2010, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the “Merger Agreement”), AP Carib Holdings, Ltd. (“Apollo”), an affiliate of Apollo Global Management LLC, acquired a 51% indirect ownership interest in EVERTEC Group as part of a merger (the “Merger”) and EVERTEC Group became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings. 



On April 17, 2012, EVERTEC Group was converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company (the “Conversion”) for the purpose of improving its consolidated tax efficiency by taking advantage of changes to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “PR Code”), that permit limited liability companies to be treated as partnerships that are pass-through entities for Puerto Rico tax purposes. Concurrent with the Conversion, Holdings, which is our direct subsidiary, was also converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company. Prior to these conversions, EVERTEC, Inc. was formed in order to act as the new parent company of Holdings and its subsidiaries, including EVERTEC Group. The transactions described above in this paragraph are collectively referred to as the “Reorganization.” 



Separation from and Key Relationship with Popular



Prior to the Merger on September 30, 2010, EVERTEC Group was 100% owned by Popular, the largest financial institution in the Caribbean, and operated substantially as an independent entity within Popular. After the consummation of the Merger, Popular retained an indirect ownership interest in EVERTEC Group and is our largest customer. In connection with, and upon consummation of the Merger, EVERTEC Group entered into a 15-year Master Services Agreement (the “MSA”), and several related agreements with Popular. Under the terms of the MSA, Popular agreed to continue to use EVERTEC services on an ongoing and exclusive basis, for the duration of the agreement, on commercial terms consistent with those of our historical relationship. The anticipated negotiation of the MSA extension may result in Popular obtaining significant concessions from us with respect to pricing and other key terms, both in respect of the current term and any extension of the MSA, particularly as we approach 2025. Additionally, Popular granted us a right of first refusal on the development of certain new financial technology products and services for the duration of the MSA.



Factors and Trends Affecting the Results of Our Operations



The ongoing migration from cash and paper methods of payment to electronic payments continues to benefit the transaction-processing industry globally. We believe that the penetration of electronic payments in the markets in which we operate is significantly lower relative to the U.S. market, and that this ongoing shift will continue to generate substantial growth opportunities for our business. For example, currently the adoption of banking products, including electronic payments, in the Latin American and Caribbean regions is lower relative to the mature U.S. and European markets. We believe that the unbanked and underbanked population in our markets will continue to shrink, and therefore drive incremental penetration and growth of electronic payments in Puerto Rico and other Latin American regions. We also benefit from the trend of financial institutions and government agencies outsourcing technology systems and processes. Many medium- and small-size institutions in the Latin American markets in which we operate have outdated computer systems and updating these IT legacy systems is financially and logistically challenging, which presents a business opportunity for us. 



25

Finally, our financial condition and results of operations are, in part, dependent on the economic and general conditions of the geographies in which we operate. 



On June 30, 2016, the U.S. President signed into law PROMESA. PROMESA establishes a fiscal oversight and the Oversight Board comprised of seven voting members appointed by the President. The Oversight Board has broad budgetary and financial powers over Puerto Rico’s budget, laws, financial plans and regulations, including the power to approve restructuring agreements with creditors, file petitions for restructuring and reform the electronic system for the tax collection. The Oversight Board will have ultimate authority in preparing the Puerto Rico government’s budget and any issuance of future debt by the government and its instrumentalities. In addition, PROMESA imposes an automatic stay on all litigation against Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities, as well as any other judicial or administrative actions or proceedings to enforce or collect claims against the Puerto Rico government. On May 1, 2017, the automatic stay expired. Promptly after the expiration of the stay, creditors of the Puerto Rico government filed various lawsuits involving defaults on more than $70 billion of bonds issued by Puerto Rico, having failed to reach a negotiated settlement on such defaults with the Puerto Rico government during the period of the automatic stay. On May 3, 2017, the Oversight Board filed a voluntary petition of relief on behalf of the Commonwealth pursuant to Title III of PROMESA for the restructuring of the Commonwealth’s debt. Subsequently, the Oversight Board filed voluntary petitions of relief pursuant to Title III of PROMESA on behalf certain public corporations and instrumentalities. Title III is an in-court debt restructuring proceeding similar to protections afforded debtors under Chapter 11 of the United States Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”); the Bankruptcy Code is not available to the Commonwealth or its instrumentalities.



As the solution to the Puerto Rican government’s debt crisis remains unclear, we continue to carefully monitor our receivables with the government as well as monitor general economic trends to understand the impact the crisis has on the economy of Puerto Rico and our card payment volumes. To date our receivables with the Puerto Rican government and overall payment transaction volumes have not been significantly affected by the debt crisis, however we remain cautious.



Furthermore, as to the macroeconomic trends described above, Management currently estimates that we will continue to experience a revenue attrition in Latin America of approximately $2 million to $3 million for previously disclosed migrations anticipated in 2019. The clients' decisions, which were made prior to 2015, for these anticipated migrations were driven by a variety of historical factors, most importantly customer service experience. Management believes that these customer decisions are unlikely to change, however timing is subject to change based on customer's conversion schedules. 



In addition, we are currently negotiating with Popular in connection with a disagreement with respect to certain pricing terms under the MSA. Both parties are negotiating to find a mutually agreeable resolution. If we are unable to reach an agreement, the parties may pursue the dispute resolution mechanism under the MSA.



Results of Operations



Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenues



Total revenues in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $6.8 million or 6% to $118.8 million when compared with the prior year period. Revenue increase in the quarter reflected growth across all segments and included benefits from value added solutions, new managed services and other pricing actions. Additionally, increased revenue was driven by the completion of projects for approximately $2.0 million.



26

Cost of revenues 



Cost of revenues amounted to $51.9 million, an increase of $2.4 million or 5% when compared with the prior year period. The increase is primarily related to an increase in professional fees driven by programming fees coupled with a slight increase in equipment expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in salaries and compensation mainly driven by deferred salaries in connection with internal software developments, decreased communications expense and lower bad debt expense. 



Selling, general and administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2019 increased by $0.7 million or 5% when compared with the same quarter in 2018. The increase is primarily related to an increase in salaries and compensation as the prior year includes a significant reversal in share-based compensation expense in connection with a former executive's forfeiture for unvested RSUs, partially offset by lower professional fees and other operating expenses.



Depreciation and amortization



Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $17.0 million, an increase of $1.2 million or 7% when compared with the prior year period. The increase is related to both higher depreciation and amortization and includes impact from development projects going into production and purchases of data processing equipment.



Non-operating income (expenses)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Non-operating expenses increased by $0.3 million to $6.3 million when compared with the prior year period. The increase is mainly related to a $0.9 million decrease in Other income (expenses) due to higher foreign exchange losses relative to the same quarter in 2018.



Income tax expense 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Income tax expense amounted to $3.7 million, an increase of $0.4 million when compared with the prior year quarterly period. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 13.0%, compared with 12.5% in the 2018 period. The increase in effective tax rate is primarily driven by an increase in foreign taxes in connection with the increased intercompany transactions. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in Puerto Rico taxes due to a shift in fully taxable operations to partially taxable operations and a tax benefit recorded during the period related to a decrease in effective tax rate for certain activities.



27

Comparison of the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenues



Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 amounted to $360.2 million, an increase of $24.6 million or 7%. Revenue benefited from the impact of a higher net spread driven by pricing actions, elevated sales volumes in Puerto Rico, higher core banking transactions and an increase in fees generated by network services related to new managed services projects. Additionally, revenue growth was impacted by one-time revenue related to an electronic benefits contract of approximately $2.7 million and revenue from hardware sales and the completion of several projects of approximately $4.5 million. 



Cost of revenues 



Cost of revenues amounted to $154.5 million, an increase of $8.5 million or 6% when compared with the prior year period. The increase is primarily related to an increase in cost of sales associated with the increased hardware sales coupled with higher professional fees and equipment expenses, partially offset by a decrease in salaries and compensation for the same reason explained above for the quarter.



Selling, general and administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $0.3 million or 1% to $45.4 million when compared with the same period in 2018. The decrease is mainly driven by lower professional services as the prior year included fees in connection with due diligence for a potential transaction that the Company decided not to pursue, almost entirely offset by an increase in salaries and compensation.



Depreciation and amortization



Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $50.4 million, an increase of $3.1 million when compared with the prior year. The increase is due to the same reasons explained above for the quarter.



Non-operating income (expenses)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



28

Non-operating expenses increased by $1.3 million to $21.2 million when compared with the prior year period. The increase is driven by a decrease in Other income (expenses) of $2.5 million due to an increase in foreign exchange losses, partially offset by a decrease in interest expense as a result of improved rates from the debt refinancing completed in the fourth quarter of the prior year.



Income tax expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Income tax expense amounted to $10.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, a decrease of $0.3 million when compared with the prior year period. The effective tax rate for the period was 11.3% compared with 13.5% in the prior year. The decrease in the effective tax rate is a result of a decrease in Puerto Rico taxes for the same reasons explained above for the quarter coupled with a discrete item in LATAM, partially offset by an increase in foreign taxes for intercompany transactions.



Segment Results of Operations



The Company operates in four business segments: Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean, Payment Services - Latin America, Merchant Acquiring, and Business Solutions. 



The Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean segment revenues are comprised of revenues related to providing access to the ATH debit network and other card networks to financial institutions, including related services such as authorization, processing, management and recording of ATM and point of sale ("POS") transactions, and ATM management and monitoring. The segment revenues also include revenues from card processing services (such as credit and debit card processing, authorization and settlement and fraud monitoring and control to debit or credit issuers), payment processing services (such as payment and billing products for merchants, businesses and financial institutions) and EBT (which principally consist of services to the government of Puerto Rico for the delivery of benefits to participants). For ATH debit network and processing services, revenues are primarily driven by the number of transactions processed. Revenues are derived primarily from network fees, transaction switching and processing fees, and the leasing of POS devices. For card issuer processing, revenues are primarily dependent upon the number of cardholder accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, the number of cards embossed and other processing services. For EBT services, revenues are primarily derived from the number of beneficiaries on file.



The Payment Services - Latin America segment revenues consist of revenues related to providing access to the ATH network and other card networks to financial institutions, including related services such as authorization, processing, management and recording of ATM and POS transactions, and ATM management and monitoring. The segment revenues also include revenues from card processing services (such as credit and debit card processing, authorization and settlement and fraud monitoring and control to debit or credit issuers), payment processing services (such as payment and billing products for merchants, businesses and financial institutions), as well as licensed software solutions for risk and fraud management and card payment processing. For ATH debit network and processing services, revenues are primarily driven by the number of transactions processed. Revenues are derived primarily from network fees, transaction switching and processing fees, and the leasing of POS devices. For card issuer processing, revenues are primarily dependent upon the number of cardholder accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, the number of cards embossed, and other processing services. 



The Merchant Acquiring segment consists of revenues from services that allow merchants to accept electronic methods of payment. In the Merchant Acquiring segment, revenues include a discount fee and membership fees charged to merchants, debit network fees and rental fees from POS devices and other equipment, net of credit card interchange and assessment fees charged by credit cards associations (such as VISA or MasterCard) or payment networks. The discount fee is generally a percentage of the transaction value. EVERTEC also charges merchants for other services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.



The Business Solutions segment consists of revenues from a full suite of business process management solutions in various product areas such as core bank processing, network managed services, IT professional services, business process outsourcing, item processing, cash processing, and fulfillment. Core bank processing and network services revenues are derived in part from a recurrent fixed fee and from fees based on the number of accounts on file (i.e. savings or checking accounts, loans, etc.) or computer resources utilized. Revenues from other processing services within the Business Solutions segment are generally 



29

volume-based and depend on factors such as the number of accounts processed. In addition, EVERTEC is a reseller of hardware and software products and these resale transactions are generally non-recurring.



In addition to the four operating segments described above, Management identified certain functional cost areas that operate independently and do not constitute businesses in themselves. These areas could neither be concluded as operating segments nor could they be combined with any other operating segments. Therefore, these areas are aggregated and presented as “Corporate and Other” category in the financial statements alongside the operating segments. The Corporate and other category consists of corporate overhead expenses, intersegment eliminations, certain leveraged activities and other non-operating and miscellaneous expenses that are not included in the operating segments. The overhead and leveraged costs relate to activities such as:



•marketing, 



•corporate finance and accounting, 



•human resources, 



•legal, 



•risk management functions, 



•internal audit, 



•corporate debt related costs, 



•non-operating depreciation and amortization expenses generated as a result of merger and acquisition activity,



•intersegment revenues and expenses, and 



•other non-recurring fees and expenses that are not considered when management evaluates financial performance at a segment level



The Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") reviews the operating segments separate financial information to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the operating results of each of its operating segments based upon revenues and Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA"). Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments. Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to operating segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting" given that it is reported to the CODM for purposes of allocating resources. Segment asset disclosure is not used by the CODM as a measure of segment performance since the segment evaluation is driven by revenues and adjusted EBITDA performance. As such, segment assets are not disclosed in the notes to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.



The following tables set forth information about the Company’s operations by its four business segments for the periods indicated below. 



Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018



Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean segment revenue increased by $1.5 million to $30.4 million when compared with the 2018 period. The increase in revenues was driven by higher transaction volumes for POS and ATM coupled with new transaction fees, partially offset by delays in the renewal of a government contract. Adjusted EBITDA decreased by $0.9 million to $18.4 million primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, mainly professional services and programming expenses, that entirely offset the increase in revenue and a decrease in bad debt expenses recorded in the prior year period.



30

Payment Services - Latin America



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Payment Services - Latin America segment revenue increased $1.7 million to $20.6 million driven mainly by higher intercompany software sale and development revenues from the Payment Services - Latin America segment to the Payment Services Puerto Rico & Caribbean segment, partially offset by anticipated client attrition. Adjusted EBITDA increased $1.0 million when compared to the prior year period primarily due to the revenue associated to intercompany services and license sales, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange losses. 



Merchant Acquiring



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Merchant Acquiring segment revenue increased to $26.4 million driven primarily by pricing actions impacting both spread and transactional revenue, partially offset by a lower average ticket and sales volume. Adjusted EBITDA increased $0.3 million as a result of the increased revenues, partially offset by higher internal processing costs due to an increase in transactions. 



Business Solutions



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Business Solutions segment revenue increased $4.1 million to $52.9 million. Revenue growth in the segment was driven by new services for both Popular and the Government of Puerto Rico and other projects completed in the quarter representing revenue of $2.0 million. Adjusted EBITDA increased $3.3 million to $25.1 million when compared with the prior year as a result of the higher revenues partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.



Comparison of the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 



Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean revenues increased by $8.7 million to $92.9 million. The increase in revenues was driven by the same reasons explained above for the quarter coupled with one-time revenue related to an electronic benefits contract of approximately $2.7 million. Adjusted EBITDA increased by $5.0 million mainly as a result of the increase in revenues, partially offset by higher operating expenses.



31

Payment Services - Latin America



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $4.0 million to $62.5 million driven by higher intercompany software sale and development revenues from the Payment Services - Latin America segment to the Payment Services Puerto Rico & Caribbean segment, partially offset by one-time sales and revenue from completed implementations in the prior year that did not recur and by the impact from client attrition. Adjusted EBITDA increased $5.3 million when compared to the prior year period due to higher revenue associated to intercompany services and licenses sold to Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean segment, coupled with a decrease in operating expenses.



Merchant Acquiring



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Merchant acquiring revenues increased $5.4 million to $79.2 million when compared with the prior year period, driven by the same reasons above explained for the quarter coupled with electronic benefit disaster relief recovery funding that ended in March 2019. Increases in transactional fees contributed to higher net spreads versus the same period in the previous year. Adjusted EBITDA increased $1.0 million reflecting the increased revenues, partially offset by higher transaction processing charges and a lower average ticket.



Business Solutions



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Business solutions revenue increased by $13.5 million to $159.5 million when compared with the prior year mainly driven by the same reasons as in the quarter described above. These revenue increases were coupled with revenue from incremental managed services from the Government of Puerto Rico. Adjusted EBITDA increased $4.3 million as a result of the increase in revenue, partially offset by higher costs of sales and costs incurred related to support and maintenance hours for Business Solutions applications. Additionally, the Company incurred in higher maintenance expenses related to infrastructure supporting the Business Solutions segment as we continue to replace obsolete assets.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, and our primary liquidity requirements are the funding of capital expenditures, working capital needs and acquisitions. We also have a $125.0 million Revolving Facility, of which $116.9 million was available as of September 30, 2019. The Company issues letters of credit against our Revolving Facility which reduce our availability of funds to be drawn.



At September 30, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $102.5 million, of which $55.9 million resides in our subsidiaries located outside of Puerto Rico for purposes of (i) funding the respective subsidiary’s current business operations and (ii) funding potential future investment outside of Puerto Rico. We intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of Puerto Rico, and based on our liquidity forecast, we will not need to repatriate this cash to fund the Puerto Rico operations or to meet debt-service obligations. However, if in the future we determine that we no longer need to maintain cash balances within our foreign subsidiaries, we may elect to distribute such cash to the Company in Puerto Rico. Distributions from the foreign 



32

subsidiaries to Puerto Rico may be subject to tax withholding and other tax consequences. Additionally, our credit agreement imposes certain restrictions on the distribution of dividends from subsidiaries.



Our primary use of cash is for operating expenses, working capital requirements, capital expenditures, dividend payments, share repurchases, debt service, acquisitions and other transactions as opportunities present themselves.



Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flows from operations and the available secured Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for the next twelve months. However, our ability to fund future operating expenses, dividend payments, capital expenditures, mergers and acquisitions, and our ability to make scheduled payments of interest, to pay principal on or refinance our indebtedness and to satisfy any other of our present or future debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial and other factors beyond our control.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $136.2 million compared with cash provided by operating activities of $128.4 million for the corresponding 2018 period. The $7.7 million increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily driven by higher net income coupled with more cash received from accounts receivable. 



Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $49.9 million compared with $25.0 million for the corresponding period in 2018. The $24.9 million increase is attributable to increases in capital expenditures.



Net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $57.1 million compared with $59.8 million for the corresponding 2018 period. The $2.7 million decrease was mainly related to a $12.0 million paydown in the prior year on the Revolving Facility, coupled with a $30.7 million decrease in cash used to paydown long-term debt. This decrease was partially offset by cash dividends paid amounting to $10.8 million and cash used for repurchases of common stock of $28.4 million, compared with $3.6 million in dividends paid in the prior year and no cash used for stock repurchases, and a $4.2 million increase in cash used for payment of statutory withholding taxes for share-based compensation. 



Capital Resources



Our principal capital expenditures are for hardware and computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $50.0 million and $25.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Capital expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our Revolving Facility. We expect capital expenditures to be in a range of $50 million to $55 million in 2019.



Dividend Payments



On February 15, 2019 , April 25, 2019 and July 25, 2019, the Board declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share on the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock, which was paid on March 22, 2019, June 7, 2019 and September 6, 2019, respectively, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 26, 2019, May 6, 2019 and August 5, 2019, respectively. 



On October 23, 2019, the Board declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share on the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. The dividend will be paid on December 6, 2019, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 4, 2019. Any declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board and will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, available cash, business opportunities, legal requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and other contracts, capital requirements, level of indebtedness and other factors that our Board deems relevant. 



33

Financial Obligations



Secured Credit Facilities



On November 27, 2018, EVERTEC and EVERTEC Group (“Borrower”) entered into a credit agreement governing the secured credit facilities, consisting of a $220.0 million term loan A facility that matures on November 27, 2023 "2023 Term A"), a $325.0 million term loan B facility that matures on November 27, 2024 ("2024 Term B") and a $125.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Facility") that matures on November 27, 2023, with a syndicate of lenders and Bank of America, N.A. (“Bank of America”), as administrative agent, collateral agent, swingline lender and line of credit issuer (collectively the “2018 Credit Agreement”). 



The unpaid principal balance at September 30, 2019 of the 2023 Term A Loan and the 2024 Term B Loan was $211.8 million and $322.6 million, respectively. The additional borrowing capacity for the Revolving Facility at September 30, 2019 was $116.9 million. The Company issues letters of credit against the Revolving Facility which reduce the additional borrowing capacity of the Revolving Facility.



Notes payable



In May 2016, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $0.7 million to purchase software. As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the outstanding principal balance of the note payable was $0.2 million and $0.3 million, respectively. The current portion of this note is recorded as part of accounts payable and the long-term portion is included in other long-term liabilities.



In January 2019, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $10.0 million to purchase data processing equipment and maintenance. As of September 30, 2019, the outstanding principal balance of the note payable was $2.5 million, recorded as part of accounts payable.



Interest Rate Swaps



At September 30, 2019, the Company has the following interest rate swap agreements converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on the Company's Term B Loan from variable to fixed: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company has accounted for these transactions as cash flow hedges. 



At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the carrying amount of the derivatives on the Company’s balance sheets is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company reclassified gains of $0.7 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense. Based on current LIBOR rates, the Company expects to reclassify gains of $1.1 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense over the next 12 months. Refer to Note 6 for tabular disclosure of the fair value of derivatives and to Note 7 for tabular disclosure of losses recorded on cash flow hedging activities.



The cash flow hedge is considered highly effective.



Covenant Compliance



34

As of September 30, 2019, the secured leverage ratio was 2.12 to 1.00. As of the date of filing of this Form 10-Q, no event has occurred that constitutes an Event of Default or Default.



Net Income Reconciliation to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share (Non-GAAP Measures)



We define “EBITDA” as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We define “Adjusted EBITDA” as EBITDA further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments described below. Adjusted EBITDA by segment is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting, and is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K. We define “Adjusted Net Income” as net income adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments described below. We define “Adjusted Earnings per common share” as Adjusted Net Income divided by diluted shares outstanding. 



We present EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA because we consider them important supplemental measures of our performance and believe they are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of ourselves and other companies in our industry. In addition, our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA is substantially consistent with the equivalent measurements that are contained in the senior secured credit facilities in testing EVERTEC Group’s compliance with covenants therein such as the senior secured leverage ratio. We use Adjusted Net Income to measure our overall profitability because we believe better reflects our comparable operating performance by excluding the impact of the non-cash amortization and depreciation that was created as a result of the Merger. In addition, in evaluating EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses such as those excluded in calculating them. Further, our presentation of these measures should not be construed as an inference that our future operating results will not be affected by unusual or nonrecurring items. 



Some of the limitations of EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted earnings per common share are as follows: 



•they do not reflect cash outlays for capital expenditures or future contractual commitments;



•they do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital;



•although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect cash requirements for such replacements;



•in the case of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, they do not reflect interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest, or principal payments, on indebtedness;



•in the case of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, they do not reflect income tax expense or the cash necessary to pay income taxes; and



•other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Earnings per common share or may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share differently than as presented in this Report, limiting their usefulness as a comparative measure.



EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share are not measurements of liquidity or financial performance under GAAP. You should not consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share as alternatives to cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating or net income determined in accordance with GAAP. 



A reconciliation of net income to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share is provided below:



35

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1)Represents the elimination of non-cash equity earnings from our 19.99% equity investment in Consorcio de Tarjetas Dominicanas S.A., net of cash dividends received. 



2)Primarily represents share-based compensation of $3.5 million and $2.4 million for the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Primarily represents share-based compensation and other compensation expense of $10.2 million and $9.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 and severance payments of $0.2 million and $1.0 million for the same periods, respectively.



3)Represents fees and expenses associated with corporate transactions as defined in the Credit Agreement, recorded as part of selling, general and administrative expenses and cost of revenues. 



4)Represents operating depreciation and amortization expense, which excludes amounts generated as a result of merger and acquisition activity. 



5)Represents interest expense, less interest income, as they appear on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, adjusted to exclude non-cash amortization of the debt issue costs, premium and accretion of discount. 



6)Represents income tax expense calculated on adjusted pre-tax income using the applicable GAAP tax rate, adjusted for certain discreet items.



7)Represents the 35% non-controlling equity interest in Evertec Colombia, net of amortization for intangibles created as part of the purchase. 



Off Balance Sheet Arrangements



In the ordinary course of business the Company may enter into commercial commitments. With the exception of the letters of credit issued against the Revolving Facility which reduce the additional borrowing capacity of the Revolving Facility, as of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any off balance sheet items.



Seasonality



Our payment businesses generally experience moderate increased activity during the traditional holiday shopping periods and around other nationally recognized holidays, which follow consumer spending patterns.



36

Effect of Inflation



While inflationary increases in certain input costs, such as occupancy, labor and benefits, and general administrative costs, have an impact on our operating results, inflation has had minimal net effect on our operating results during the last three years as overall inflation has been offset by increased selling process and cost reduction actions. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be affected by general inflation in the future.



