Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS



Statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, income or loss, expenses, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, research and development, and the sufficiency of capital resources; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements, including those related to economic conditions; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators, including the proportion of revenues generated from international as opposed to domestic customers; and (v) statements regarding products, their characteristics, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers. Words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “targeted,” “should,” “potential,” “goals,” “strategy,” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Form 8-K to be filed by us in fiscal 2019.



OVERVIEW



We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across their enterprise — an approach we commonly refer to as decision management. Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO® Score, and our decision management systems leverage the use of big data and mathematical algorithms to predict, categorize, and describe consumer behavior in order to power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We help thousands of companies in over 100 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, detect and reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® Scores, the standard measure of consumer credit risk in the U.S., and empower them to manage their financial health. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer onboarding, customer servicing and management, and customer protection. We also help businesses improve non-customer decisions such as streamlining transaction and claims processing, optimizing logistics, and identifying and quantifying security risk. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty.



We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients outside the U.S. International revenues accounted for 37% and 34% of total consolidated revenues for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 87% and 84% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In addition, we derive a significant share of revenues from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 74% and 73% of our revenues during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.



20

We continue to drive growth in our Scores segment. Scores revenue increased 25% to $85.7 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $68.4 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. Scores operating income increased 37% to $72.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $52.5 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. For our Applications and Decision Management Software segments, our cloud business continues to grow both in the absolute dollar value and as a percentage of revenues as we pursue our cloud-first strategy. During the quarter ended December 31, 2018, cloud revenues accounted for $63.4 million, or 36% of non-Scores revenues, compared to $56.2 million, or 34% during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. 



Operating income increased 33% to $49.0 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $36.8 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 and as a result, net earnings increased 22% to $40.0 million from $32.9 million, primarily due to the increase in operating income, partially offset by higher interest expense incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.



We continue to enhance stockholder value by returning cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase program. During the quarter ended December 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately 0.4 million shares at a total repurchase price of $82.7 million. As of December 31, 2018, we had $116.6 million remaining under our current stock repurchase program.



Bookings



Management uses bookings as an indicator of our business performance. Bookings represent contracts signed in the current reporting period that generate current and future revenue streams. We consider contract terms, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our customers, among other factors, when determining the estimated value of contract bookings.



Bookings calculations have varying degrees of certainty depending on the revenue type and individual contract terms. Our revenue types are transactional and maintenance, professional services and license. Our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results. Actual revenue and the timing thereof could differ materially from our initial estimates. The following paragraphs discuss the key assumptions used to calculate bookings and the susceptibility of these assumptions to variability.



Transactional and Maintenance Bookings



We calculate transactional bookings as the total estimated volume of transactions or number of accounts under contract, multiplied by the contractual rate. Transactional contracts generally span multiple years and require us to make estimates about future transaction volumes or number of active accounts. We develop estimates from discussions with our customers and examinations of historical data from similar products and customer arrangements. Differences between estimated bookings and actual results occur due to variability in the volume of transactions or number of active accounts estimated. This variability is primarily caused by the following:



•The health of the economy and economic trends in our customers’ industries;



•Individual performance of our customers relative to their competitors; and



•Regulatory and other factors that affect the business environment in which our customers operate.



We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract.



Professional Services Bookings



We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour. We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects. Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred. These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer services resources used to complete a project.



21

License Bookings



Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract.



Bookings Trend Analysis



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Bookings yield represents the percentage of revenue recognized from bookings for the periods indicated.



(2)Weighted-average term of bookings measures the average term over which bookings are expected to be recognized as revenue.



Transactional and maintenance bookings were 55% and 32% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Professional services bookings were 33% and 55% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. License bookings were 12% and 13% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Revenues



The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our revenues for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applications segment revenues increased $7.5 million primarily due to an $8.2 million increase in our fraud solutions and a $2.2 million increase in our compliance solutions, partially offset by a $4.2 million decrease in our collections & recovery solutions. The increase in our fraud solutions was primarily attributable to a large multi-year software license renewal. The increase in our compliance solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in license and transactional revenues. The decrease in collections and recovery solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue.



22

Scores



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Scores segment revenues increased $17.3 million due to an increase of $15.0 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $2.3 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue. The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional scores in originations, primarily driven by a higher unit price in mortgage activities. The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies. 



During the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 11% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 14% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues. Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments. 



Decision Management Software



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Decision Management Software segment revenues increased $5.2 million primarily attributable to an increase in license and services revenues related to our FICO® Decision Management Platform product.



23

Operating Expenses and Other Income / Expenses



The following tables set forth certain summary information related to our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cost of Revenues



Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee salaries and benefits for personnel directly involved in developing, installing and supporting revenue products; travel costs; overhead costs; outside services; internal network hosting costs; software royalty fees; and credit bureau data and processing services.



The quarter over quarter increase in cost of revenue expenses of $1.6 million was primarily attributable to increase in personnel and labor costs. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased to 29% during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from 32% during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 primarily due to sales of our higher-margin Scores and software products.



Over the next several quarters, we expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be slightly higher than that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.



Research and Development



Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Decision Management Software products.



Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 13% during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from 12% during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. The $6.4 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in labor and personnel costs as a result of our continued investment in cloud computing and SaaS. 



24

Over the next several quarters, we expect research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.



Selling, General and Administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee salaries, commissions and benefits; travel costs; overhead costs; advertising and other promotional expenses; corporate facilities expenses; legal expenses; business development expenses and the cost of operating computer systems.



The quarter over quarter increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $10.0 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount and higher share-based compensation cost. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was 38% during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, materially consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.



Over the next several quarters, we expect selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.



Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting. Our finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from four to fifteen years.



Amortization expense was $1.5 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 versus $1.8 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. 



Over the next several quarters, we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.



Interest Expense, Net



Interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008, July 2010 and May 2018, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit. Our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income include interest expense netted with interest income, which is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements. 



The quarter over quarter increase in interest expense of $3.2 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding debt balance during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, as well as a higher average interest rate on our 2018 Senior Notes compared to that on our revolving line of credit.



Over the next several quarters, we expect net interest expense will be higher than the net interest expense incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.



Other Income (Expense), Net



Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized investment gains/losses, exchange rate gains/losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign-currency-denominated receivable and cash balances into their respective functional currencies at period-end market rates, net of the impact of offsetting foreign currency forward contracts and other non-operating items.



The quarter over quarter increase in other income (expense), net of $2.7 million was primarily attributable to unrealized losses on a supplemental retirement and saving plan. 



25

Provision for Income Taxes



The effective income tax rate was (7.7)% and (6.5)% during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The provision for income taxes during interim quarterly reporting periods is based on our estimates of the effective tax rates for the full fiscal year. The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution. The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was both impacted by recording of excess tax benefits relating to stock awards that vested in December of both years. In addition, the quarter ended December 31, 2017 was affected by recording the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), enacted on December 22, 2017 by the U.S. government. The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code that affect our fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 and fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, including, but not limited to: (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate; (2) requiring a one-time transition tax on certain un-repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) repealing the performance-based compensation exception for certain employees; (4) instituting the concept of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”); and (5) instituting the concept of Foreign Derived Intangible Income.



Operating Income



The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our operating income for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Scores 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



26

Decision Management Software 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The quarter over quarter $12.2 million increase in operating income was attributable to a $29.9 million increase in segment revenues and a $0.3 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by a $10.2 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $5.3 million increase in share-based compensation cost and a $2.5 million increase in corporate expenses.



At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $17.2 million increase in segment operating income was the result of a $19.6 million increase in our Scores segment operating income and a $2.6 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by a $2.5 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss and a $2.5 million increase in corporate expense.



The quarter over quarter $2.6 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $7.5 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $4.9 million increase in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 was 27%, consistent with the quarter ended December 31, 2017.



The quarter over quarter $19.6 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $17.2 million increase in segment revenue and a $2.4 million decrease in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 84% from 77% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.



The quarter over quarter $2.5 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was due to a $7.7 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by a $5.2 million increase in segment revenue. Segment operating margin for Decision Management Software decreased to a negative 37% from a negative 34% primarily due to our continued investment in cloud infrastructure operations and new products.



CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY



Outlook



As of December 31, 2018, we had $79.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, which included $63.5 million held off-shore by our foreign subsidiaries. We believe these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $400 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements as well as the $28.0 million principal payment due in July 2019 on our senior notes issued in July 2010. Under our current financing arrangements, we have no other significant debt obligations maturing over the next twelve months. Additionally, though we do not anticipate the need to repatriate any undistributed earnings from our foreign subsidiaries for the foreseeable future, we may take advantage of opportunities where we are able to repatriate these earnings to the U.S. without material incremental tax provision.



In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities. Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds were not available or were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or respond to competitive pressures could be limited.



27

Summary of Cash Flows 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash Flows from Operating Activities



Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $48.9 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $28.8 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2017. The $20.1 million increase was mainly attributable to a $7.1 million increase in net income, a $5.3 million increase in non-cash share-based compensation expense and a $3.1 million increase in unrealized losses on marketable securities.



Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities increased to $8.7 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $6.0 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2017. The $2.7 million increase was attributable to a $2.4 million increase in purchases of property and equipment as well as a $0.3 million increase in purchases, net of proceeds from sale, of marketable securities.



Cash Flows from Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities increased to $50.1 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from $34.7 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2017. The $15.4 million increase was primarily attributable to a $27.4 million increase in repurchases of common stock and a $4.1 million increase in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by a $9.0 million increase in proceeds, net of payments, from our revolving line of credit and a $6.9 million increase in proceeds from issuance of treasury stock under employee stock plans.



Repurchases of Common Stock



In July 2018, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program. This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.



Pursuant to the July 2018 program, we repurchased 425,000 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $82.7 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.



Revolving Line of Credit



We have a $400 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on May 8, 2023. Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions, and the repurchase of our common stock. Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate, (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500% and (c) the one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.000%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for base rate borrowings ranges from 0% to 0.875% and for LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.875%, and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio. In addition, we must pay credit facility fees. The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including: maintaining a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.25, subject to a step up to 3.75 following certain permitted acquisitions; and a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.5 through the maturity of our 2010 Senior Notes in July 2020, upon which maintaining a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.00. The credit agreement also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of December 31, 2018, we had $325.0 million in borrowings outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 3.839% and were in compliance with all financial covenants under this credit facility. 



28

Senior Notes



On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2010 Senior Notes”). The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years. The outstanding 2010 Senior Notes’ weighted average interest rate is 5.6% and the weighted average maturity is 9.8 years. The 2010 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually and contain certain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a maximum consolidated net debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio of 3.00 and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.50. On May 8, 2018, we issued $400 million of senior notes in a private offering to qualified institutional investors (the “2018 Senior Notes”, and with the 2010 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”). The 2018 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 5.25% per annum and will mature on May 15, 2026. The purchase agreements for the 2010 Senior Notes and the indenture for the 2018 Senior Notes contain certain covenants typical of unsecured obligations. As of December 31, 2018, the carrying value of the Senior Notes was $513.0 million and we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these obligations.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require management to make certain judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates including those relating to revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on the specific circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.



We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:



Revenue Recognition



Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.



See Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on revenues.



Business Combinations



Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.



29

Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date, including our estimates for intangible assets, contractual obligations assumed, pre-acquisition contingencies and contingent consideration, where applicable. If we cannot reasonably determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) by the end of the measurement period, we will recognize an asset or a liability for such pre-acquisition contingency if: (i) it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Subsequent to the measurement period, changes in our estimates of such contingencies will affect earnings and could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position.



Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to:(i) future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; (ii) expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and (iii) the acquired company’s brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined company’s product portfolio. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Historically, there have been no significant changes in our estimates or assumptions. To the extent a significant acquisition is made during a fiscal year, as appropriate we will expand the discussion to include specific assumptions and inputs used to determine the fair value of our acquired intangible assets.



In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date. We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the tax allowance’s or contingency’s estimated value, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Historically, there have been no significant changes in our valuation allowances or uncertain tax positions as it relates to business combinations. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.



Goodwill, Acquisition Intangibles and Other Long-Lived Assets - Impairment Assessment



Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. We assess goodwill for impairment for each of our reporting units on an annual basis during the fourth quarter using a July 1 measurement date unless circumstances require a more frequent measurement. We have determined that our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments. When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may first perform an assessment qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, referred to as a “step zero” approach. If, based on the review of the qualitative factors, we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we would bypass the two-step impairment test. Events and circumstances we consider in performing the “step zero” qualitative assessment include macro-economic conditions, market and industry conditions, internal cost factors, share price fluctuations, and the operational stability and the overall financial performance of the reporting units. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount, we would perform the first step (“step one”) of the two-step impairment test and calculate the estimated fair value of the reporting unit by using discounted cash flow valuation models and by comparing our reporting units to guideline publicly-traded companies. These methods require estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital, and other relevant factors, as well as selecting appropriate guideline publicly-traded companies for each reporting unit. We estimate these amounts by evaluating historical trends, current budgets, operating plans, industry data, and other relevant factors. Using assumptions that are different from those used in our estimates, but in each case reasonable, could produce significantly different results and materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. For example, if the economic environment impacts our forecasts beyond what we have anticipated, it could cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its respective carrying value.



For fiscal 2018, we performed a step zero qualitative analysis for our annual assessment of goodwill impairment. After evaluating and weighing all relevant events and circumstances, we concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units was less than their carrying amounts. Consequently, we did not perform a step one quantitative analysis and determined goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2018.



30

Our intangible assets that have finite useful lives and other long-lived assets are assessed for potential impairment when there is evidence that events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. When impairment indicators are identified, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows. If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset. Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows. Should different conditions prevail, material write downs of our intangible assets or other long-lived assets could occur. We review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets at each reporting period. A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods.



As discussed above, while we believe that the assumptions and estimates utilized were appropriate based on the information available to management, different assumptions, judgments and estimates could materially affect our impairment assessments for our goodwill, acquired intangibles with finite lives and other long-lived assets. Historically, there have been no significant changes in our estimates or assumptions that would have had a material impact for our goodwill or intangible assets impairment assessment. We believe our projected operating results and cash flows would need to be significantly less favorable to have a material impact on our impairment assessment. However, based upon our historical experience with operations, we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood of a significant change in our projections.



Share-Based Compensation



We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the stock award (generally three to four years). We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to determine the fair value of our stock options and the Monte Carlo valuation model to determine the fair value of our market share units. Our valuation models and generally accepted valuation techniques require us to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, employee turnover rates and employee stock option exercise behaviors. Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions. 



Income Taxes



We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business, which involves significant judgment in determining our income tax provision. We estimate our current tax liability using currently enacted tax rates and laws and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheets using the currently enacted tax rates and laws that will apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We then assess the likelihood our deferred tax assets will be realized and to the extent we believe realization is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding income tax expense in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. In assessing the need for the valuation allowance, we consider future taxable income in the jurisdictions we operate, our ability to carry back tax attributes to prior years, an analysis of our deferred tax assets and the periods over which they will be realizable, and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase. We have historically had minimal changes in our valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets.



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”), as signed by the U.S. President on December 22, 2017, significantly revises U.S. tax law. It was effective starting in our first quarter of fiscal 2018. The SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) in December 2017, which provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, “Accounting for Income Taxes” (“ASC 740”). Information regarding our adoption and prospective impacts of the Tax Act is included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2019. We have completed our analysis consistent with the guidance provided in SAB 118 related to the tax effects of the transition tax and repealing the performance-based compensation exception for certain employees, which resulted in no additional charges recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2018.



The Tax Act subjects U.S. corporations to tax on their GILTI. Due to the complexity of the new GILTI tax rules, we are continuing to evaluate this provision of the Tax Act and the application of GAAP. Under GAAP, we can make an accounting policy election to either treat taxes due on the GILTI inclusion as a current period expense or factor such amounts into our measurement of deferred taxes. We have not yet adopted an accounting policy in regard to GILTI.



31

We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the technical merits of the tax position indicate it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions and they are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. Historically, settlements related to our unrecognized tax benefits have been minimal.



A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above.



Contingencies and Litigation



We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, stockholder and other matters. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse outcomes and the potential range of probable losses in these matters. If the potential loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. If the potential loss is considered less than probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, disclosure of the matter is considered. The amount of loss accrual or disclosure, if any, is determined after analysis of each matter, and is subject to adjustment if warranted by new developments or revised strategies. Due to uncertainties related to these matters, accruals or disclosures are based on the best information available at the time. Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses. Revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.



New Accounting Pronouncements



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2014-09. The standard’s core principle is that a reporting entity will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from the contracts with customers. The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (“full retrospective method”), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (“modified retrospective method”). 



We adopted ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the full retrospective method which required us to adjust each prior reporting period presented. This adoption primarily affected timing of revenue recognition of license revenue on term licenses and transactional revenue on guaranteed minimum fees related to our on-premises software products. Under the new standard, we recognize revenue when control of the license is transferred to the customer, rather than at the date payments become due and payable when there are extended payment terms, or ratably over the term of the contract as required under the previous standard. In addition, revenue attributable to a software license renewal is recognized at the beginning of the applicable renewal period rather than at the signing of the renewal agreement as required under the previous standard. Additionally, under the new standard, when we enter into noncancellable contracts that provide unconditional rights to payment from our customers for services we have not yet completed or services we will provide in the near future, we present receivables — our unconditional rights to payments — and deferred revenues on a gross basis, rather than on a net basis. Finally, under the new standard we capitalize and amortize contract acquisition costs such as commissions paid for SaaS cloud services contracts in excess of one year. Following the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the revenue recognition for our other sales arrangements remained materially consistent with our historical practice.



Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, we applied the standard’s practical expedients that permit the omission of prior-period information about our performance obligations.



See Note 1 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on the impact of the standard adoption on our previously reported results.



32

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, “Income Statement — Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2018-02”). ASU 2018-02 allows reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act and requires certain disclosures about stranded tax effects. The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019. ASU 2018-02 should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Act is recognized. We do not believe that adoption of ASU 2018-02 will have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” and subsequent amendments to the initial guidance: ASU 2017-13, ASU 2018-10, ASU 2018-11 and ASU 2018-20 (collectively, Topic 842). Topic 842 requires companies to generally recognize on the balance sheet operating and financing lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets. Topic 842 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of Topic 842 on our consolidated financial statements. We expect that most of our operating leases will be recognized as right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, which will increase our total assets and total liabilities upon adoption.



