Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



Overview 



The discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Quarterly Report, contains statements concerning potential future events. Such forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by management, as of the date of this Quarterly Report, including assumptions about risks and uncertainties faced by the Company. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of the Company’s assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017. This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission") in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC's public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company. The Company will not update any forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report to reflect future events or developments. 



The information contained in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-Q and the audited financial statements and notes thereto in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 30, 2017. 



The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer products through its network of independent dealers and distributors. However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. 



The Company adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition, as discussed in Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, effective beginning with the Company’s first quarter of 2018. Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Results of Operations have been restated accordingly. 



20 



Results of Operations 



The following table sets forth the Company’s results of operations as a percent of net sales during the periods shown (the table may not foot due to rounding): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Allocation of certain research and development expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses are made to each segment on a percent of revenue basis. The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments' amounts equals the amount in the condensed consolidated statements of income included in Item 1. 



Comparison of 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018 and April 1, 2017  



(Amounts included in the following discussion are stated in thousands unless otherwise indicated) 



Net Sales 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net sales increased 11% for the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 18%, contributing 80% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 23% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 22% in the first quarter of 2017. Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the first quarter of 2017 at 25% and declined to 20% in the first quarter of 2018. 



Total unit sales decreased to 2,956 in the first quarter of 2018 from 3,099 in the same period of 2017. 



Auto segment revenue decreased 12% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. The current quarter marine increase of 9% was primarily driven by sales of the newly acquired Navionics business. Fitness segment revenues increased 20% from the year-ago quarter, primarily driven by advanced wearables and newly introduced products. Revenues in the outdoor segment increased 24% from the year-ago quarter primarily driven by significant growth in the wearable category. Aviation revenues increased 19% when compared to the year-ago quarter, driven by strong sales across most product lines. 



21 



Cost of Goods Sold  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cost of goods sold increased 6% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter. The increase in revenues outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 190 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter. 



In the auto segment, the decline in cost of goods sold was largely consistent with the segment revenue declines. In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the impact of Navionics sales on product mix. In the outdoor and fitness segments, the decreases in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue resulted from a shift in product mix toward higher margin products. The aviation segment increase in cost of goods was largely consistent with the increase in sales. 



Gross Profit 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit dollars in the first quarter of 2018 increased 14% while gross margin increased 190 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2017. Gross margin remained relatively flat across the auto and aviation segments, while gross margin in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments increased primarily due to product mix within those segments, as discussed above. 



Advertising Expense 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Advertising expense decreased 20% in absolute dollars compared to the year-ago quarter. The overall decrease in absolute dollars was driven primarily by decreased cooperative advertising associated with customer mix and fitness media, partially offset by an increase in outdoor media. 



22 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Selling, general and administrative expense increased 15% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from prior year acquisitions in the first quarter of 2018. All segments, except for marine, were relatively flat as a percent of revenues. The marine segment increase as a percent of revenues was primarily due to expenses resulting from prior year acquisitions in the first quarter of 2018. 



Research and Development Expense 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Research and development expense increased 16% primarily due to engineering personnel costs related to our wearable product offerings, aviation, and expenses resulting from prior year acquisitions within the marine segment. In absolute dollars, research and development costs increased $19.8 million when compared with the year-ago quarter and increased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 



Operating Income  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Operating income increased 22% in absolute dollars and increased 180 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the first quarter of 2017. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar and percent of revenue basis resulted from revenue growth and an increase in gross margin percent, while operating expenses as a percent of revenue remained relatively flat, as discussed above 



23 



Other Income (Expense)  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The average return on cash and investments, including interest and capital gains/losses, during the first quarter of 2018 was 1.7% compared to 1.4% during the same quarter of 2017. Interest income increased primarily due to slightly higher yields on fixed-income securities.  



Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 



The $0.8 million currency gain recognized in the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.7% against the Euro and 3.7% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $8.8 million and $2.0 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.0% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $12.7 million. The remaining net currency gain of $2.7 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions. 



The $37.5 million currency loss recognized in the first quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended April 1, 2017. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 7.1% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $42.9 million, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 1.3% against the Euro and 1.7% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $2.7 million and $0.8 million, respectively. The remaining net currency gain of $1.9 million was related to other currencies and timing of transactions.  



Income Tax Provision  



The Company recorded an income tax expense of $24.6 million in the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018, compared to income tax benefit of $150.0 million in the 13-week period ended April 1, 2017, which included a $168.8 million income tax benefit due to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets. The effective tax rate was 16.0% in the first quarter of 2018, compared to (169.8%) in the first quarter of 2017. Excluding the effect of the $168.8 million revaluation of deferred tax assets in the first quarter of 2017, the first quarter of 2018 effective tax rate decreased by 520 basis points primarily due to the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate, as a result of U.S. tax reform passed in December 2017, and the net release of uncertain tax position reserves. 



Net Income  



As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended March 31, 2018 was $129.4 million compared to $238.4 million for the 13-week period ended April 1, 2017, a decrease of $109 million. 



24 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



As of March 31, 2018, we had $2,375.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, fund strategic acquisitions, and fund share repurchases. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 



It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Board of Directors of each applicable Garmin entity holding the cash. The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during first quarter 2018 and 2017 were approximately 1.7% and 1.5%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. 



Operating Activities 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The $93.8 million increase in cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was primarily due to the increase in cash provided by working capital of $57.4 million (which included an increase of $52.8 million in net receipts of accounts receivable and a decrease of $11.7 million in cash paid for inventory) and income taxes payable of $10.1 million. Additionally, the year over year decrease in net income of $109.0 million was offset by other non-cash adjustments to net income of $135.3 million, including an income tax benefit of $168.8 million recognized in the first quarter of 2017 related to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets. 



Investing Activities 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The $99.3 million increase in cash used in investing activities in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was primarily due to increased net purchases of marketable securities of $88.8M and cash payments for acquisitions of $9.4 million. 



Financing Activities 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The $26.6 million decrease in cash used in financing activities in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2017 was primarily due to decreased purchases of treasury stock under our share repurchase authorization of $27.9M. 



25 



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



General 



Garmin’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Garmin’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires Garmin to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, Garmin evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. Garmin bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 



For a description of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements, refer to Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017. There were no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates in the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018, other than those discussed in Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies”. 



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



Items (a) and (b) are not applicable. 



(c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 



The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant. In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares. On December 31, 2017, the share repurchase authorization expired with no additional shares having been repurchased during the first quarter of 2018. 



