PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings.



Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017 and Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2018, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common and capital stock. Other than the risk factor set forth below, there have been no material changes in our risk factors since our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2018.



System security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.



Experienced computer programmers and hackers, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, or attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, customers, or others to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or unwittingly provide access to our systems or data. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Media or other reports of perceived security vulnerabilities in our network security, even if nothing has actually been attempted or occurred, could also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially affect our business. While we have developed and implemented security measures and internal controls designed to protect against cyber and other security problems, such measures cannot provide absolute security and may not be successful in preventing future security breaches. In the past, we have experienced data security incidents resulting from unauthorized use of our systems or those of third parties, which to date have not had a material impact on our operations; however, there is no assurance that such impacts will not be material in the future.



We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and our customers. Breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. We also could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers’ system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant.



Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



55



Table of Contents  



Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities



There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $3.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock. On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized an additional $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock. This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions. HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. All share repurchases settled in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 were open market transactions. As of July 31, 2018, HP had approximately $4.5 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.



None.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.



Not applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



Not applicable.



Item 6. Exhibits.



The Exhibit Index beginning on page 57 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.



56



Table of Contents 



