PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings.



General. From time to time, as a normal incident of the nature and kind of businesses in which we are or were engaged, various claims or charges are asserted and litigation or arbitration is commenced by or against us arising from or related to matters, including, but not limited to: product liability; personal injury; patents, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property; labor and employee disputes; commercial or contractual disputes; strategic acquisitions or divestitures; the prior sale or use of former products allegedly containing asbestos or other restricted materials; breach of warranty; or environmental matters. Claimed amounts against us may be substantial, but may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claim or the extent of any real risk of court or arbitral awards. We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred. At September 28, 2018, our accrual for the potential resolution of lawsuits, claims or proceedings that we consider probable of being decided unfavorably to us was not material. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters with certainty, it is reasonably possible that some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of or decided unfavorably to us and in excess of the amounts currently accrued. Based on available information, in the opinion of management, settlements, arbitration awards and final judgments, if any, that are considered probable of being rendered against us in litigation or arbitration in existence at September 28, 2018 are reserved against or would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



Tax Audits. Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings. We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. Except as set forth below in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” we do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



In addition to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K, the following are risks related to our pending all-stock merger of equals with L3, which is discussed in Note R — Subsequent Events in the Notes: 



•The closing of the merger is subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and approval by the shareholders of each company. If the closing conditions are not satisfied or waived, either timely or at all, the merger will be delayed or will not be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.



•The market price of our common stock may reflect an assumption that the pending merger will occur and on a timely basis, and the failure to do so may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.



•Combining the two companies may prove to be more difficult, costly and time consuming than expected, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.



•In connection with the merger, the combined company will have significant outstanding indebtedness, including each company’s currently outstanding indebtedness, which could adversely affect us, including by potentially lowering our credit ratings or decreasing our business flexibility, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.



•The merger will involve substantial non-recurring costs, including transaction costs, regulatory costs and integration costs, such as facilities, systems and employment-related costs, and we may incur additional unanticipated costs that may be significant. Although we expect the elimination of duplicative costs and other cost synergies from operational and functional efficiencies following integration of the two companies to exceed integration costs over time, we may not be able to achieve this result as quickly as anticipated or at all, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.



•The merger may not be as accretive to our earnings or cash flows as we expect, either as quickly or at all, and actually may be dilutive to our earnings or cash flows, particularly if we are not able to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the merger.



 39



•Sales of our common stock by our shareholders, including shareholders of L3 who receive shares of our common stock as a result of the merger, may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.



•Lawsuits may be filed challenging the merger, and an adverse ruling in such lawsuits may cause the merger to be delayed or not to be completed, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.



•Uncertainties associated with the merger may adversely affect our ability and L3’s ability to attract and retain management and other key employees during the pendency of the merger and the integration period, which could adversely affect our business and operations and L3’s business and operations, which could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the merger.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we repurchased 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program for $200 million at an average price per share of $163.97, excluding commissions of $.02 per share. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Shares repurchased by us are cancelled and retired. The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Periods represent our fiscal months.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)Represents a combination of: (a) shares of our common stock delivered to us in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligation of holders of performance units, restricted units or restricted shares that vested during the quarter and (b) performance units, restricted units or restricted shares returned to us upon retirement or employment termination of employees. Our equity incentive plans provide that the value of shares delivered to us to pay the exercise price of options or to cover tax withholding obligations shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs.



Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities



During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.



Not Applicable.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.



 40



Not Applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



Not Applicable.



Item 6. Exhibits.



EXHIBIT INDEX



The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the SEC:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 41



