PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings.



General. From time to time, as a normal incident of the nature and kind of businesses in which we are or were engaged, various claims or charges are asserted and litigation or arbitration is commenced by or against us arising from or related to matters, including, but not limited to: product liability; personal injury; patents, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property; labor and employee disputes; commercial or contractual disputes; strategic acquisitions or divestitures; the prior sale or use of former products allegedly containing asbestos or other restricted materials; breach of warranty; or environmental matters. Claimed amounts against us may be substantial, but may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claim or the extent of any real risk of court or arbitral awards. We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred. At March 30, 2018, our accrual for the potential resolution of lawsuits, claims or proceedings that we consider probable of being decided unfavorably to us was not material. Although it is not feasible to predict the outcome of these matters with certainty, it is reasonably possible that some lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of or decided unfavorably to us and in excess of the amounts currently accrued. Based on available information, in the opinion of management, settlements, arbitration awards and final judgments, if any, that are considered probable of being rendered against us in litigation or arbitration in existence at March 30, 2018 are reserved against or would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



Tax Audits. Our tax filings are subject to audit by taxing authorities in jurisdictions where we conduct or conducted business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings. We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Investors should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows as set forth under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Other than the updated risk factor set forth below, we do not believe that there have been any material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We may disclose changes to such risk factors or disclose additional risk factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.



We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors. We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, is persistent and substantial as the volume, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world remain elevated and unlikely to diminish. As an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers. These types of information and IT networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption. Our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date. Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. In some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business 



 38



and the industries in which we operate. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. Thus, it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk, and there can be no assurance that future cyber security incidents will not have a material negative impact on us. A security breach or other significant disruption involving these types of information and IT networks and related systems could:



•Disrupt the proper functioning of these networks and systems and, therefore, our operations and/or those of certain of our customers;



•Result in the unauthorized access to, and destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary, confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours, our customers or our employees, including trade secrets, which could be used to compete against us or for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful purposes and outcomes;



•Compromise national security and other sensitive government functions;



•Require significant management attention and resources to remedy the damages that result;



•Subject us to claims for contract breach, damages, credits, penalties or termination; and



•Damage our reputation with our customers (particularly agencies of the U.S. Government) and the public generally. 



Any or all of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 312,902 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program for $47 million at an average price per share of $150.07. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Shares repurchased by us are cancelled and retired. The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the third quarter of fiscal 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Periods represent our fiscal months.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)Represents a combination of (a) shares of our common stock delivered to us in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligation of holders of performance units, restricted units or restricted shares that vested during the quarter and (b) performance units, restricted units or restricted shares returned to us upon retirement or employment termination of employees. Our equity incentive plans provide that the value of shares delivered to us to pay the exercise price of options or to cover tax withholding obligations shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs.



 39



Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities



During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.



Not Applicable.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.



Not Applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



Not Applicable.



Item 6. Exhibits.



EXHIBIT INDEX



The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the SEC:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement



 40



