Item 4. Controls and Procedures.



(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures: We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. Our disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives, and management necessarily is required to use its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. As required by Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. Based on this work and other evaluation procedures, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, has concluded that as of the end of the quarter ended September 27, 2019, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective.



(b) Changes in Internal Control: We periodically review our internal control over financial reporting as part of our efforts to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we routinely review our system of internal control over financial reporting to identify potential changes to our processes and systems that may improve controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, consolidating the activities of business units, migrating certain processes to our shared services organizations, formalizing policies and procedures, improving segregation of duties and increasing monitoring controls. In addition, when we acquire new businesses, we incorporate our controls and



procedures into the acquired business as part of our integration activities. We are continuing the multi-year, phased



implementation targeted for completion in 2020 of a new core enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system in certain



business units, which we expect to reduce the number of ERP systems across the Company and enhance our system of internal



control over financial reporting. We expect the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in each affected business unit



to involve changes to related processes that are part of our system of internal control over financial reporting and to require



testing for effectiveness and potential further changes as implementation progresses. During fiscal 2018 and 2019, we successfully completed the initial implementation of the new core ERP system in four business units. As part of our integration with L3, we are in the process of incorporating our controls and procedures with respect to L3’s operations, and we will include internal controls with respect to L3’s operations in our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of 2020. Other than the system and related process changes described above as well as changes related to incorporating our controls and procedures with respect to L3’s operations, there have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



 51



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.



Not Applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



Not Applicable.



 53



Item 6. Exhibits.



EXHIBIT INDEX



The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the SEC:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_______________



*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.



 54



SIGNATURE



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 55
