Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.



In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.



Foreign Exchange and Currency: We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge both balance sheet and off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging programs for foreign currency include accuracy of sales estimates, volatility of currency markets (particularly with respect to the United Kingdom due to Brexit) and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. A 10 percent change in currency 



 35



exchange rates for our foreign currency derivatives held at December 29, 2017 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of such instruments or our results of operations or cash flows. This quantification of exposure to the market risk associated with foreign currency financial instruments does not take into account the offsetting impact of changes in the fair value of our foreign denominated assets, liabilities and firm commitments. See Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.



Interest Rates: As of December 29, 2017, we had long-term fixed-rate debt obligations. The fair value of these obligations is impacted by changes in interest rates; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for our long-term fixed-rate debt obligations at December 29, 2017 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these obligations. Additionally, there is no interest-rate risk associated with these obligations on our results of operations or cash flows, because the interest rates are fixed and because our long-term fixed-rate debt is not putable to us (i.e., not required to be redeemed by us prior to maturity). We can give no assurances, however, that interest rates will not change significantly or have a material effect on the fair value of our long-term debt obligations over the next twelve months.



As of December 29, 2017, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $270 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020 and $20 million of the 3-year tranche of our senior unsecured term loan facility due May 29, 2018. These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at December 29, 2017 would not have had a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. See Note I — Long-Term Debt in the Notes and Note 13: “Long-Term Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K for further information.



