Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



OVERVIEW



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”). In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. Except for the historical information contained herein, the discussions in this MD&A contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below in this MD&A under “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results.”



The following is a list of the sections of this MD&A, together with our perspective on their contents, which we hope will assist in reading these pages:



•Results of Operations — an analysis of our consolidated results of operations and the results in each of our business segments, to the extent the segment results are helpful to an understanding of our business as a whole, for the periods presented in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).



•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.



•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — information about accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates and about accounting standards that have been issued, but are not yet effective for us, and their potential impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results — cautionary information about forward-looking statements and a description of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections.



We report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three segments, which are also referred to as our business segments:



•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 



•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and C4ISR solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and



•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 



As described in more detail in the Adoption of New Accounting Standards section in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, effective June 30, 2018, we adopted ASC 606, a new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts. Effective June 30, 2018, we also adopted ASU 2017-07, which changed the presentation of components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs other than the service cost component in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited). Our historical results, discussion and presentation as set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes and this MD&A reflect the impact of the adoption of these new standards for all periods presented in order to present all information on a comparable basis. 



The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications. Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.



Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding. 



 26



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Highlights



Operations results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, in each case compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018, included:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Consolidated Results of Operations



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue



The increase in revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to higher revenue in all three of our segments. 



See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.



 27



Gross Margin



The increase in gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three of our segments and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix in our Communication Systems segment.



See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.



Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses



 The decrease in ESA as a percentage of total revenue (“ESA percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to cost containment. The increase in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher bid and proposal and employment costs.



See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.



Income Taxes



Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 16.0 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 27.6 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our effective tax rate benefited from the tax rate reduction under the Tax Act, and in the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, and from several differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments. 



Income From Continuing Operations



The increase in income from continuing operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.



Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share



The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and fewer diluted weighted average common shares outstanding due to repurchases of shares of common stock under our repurchase program during the last three quarters of fiscal 2018 and first quarter of fiscal 2019.



See “Common Stock Repurchases” below in this MD&A for further information.



Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations



Communication Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The increase in segment revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to growth in all three businesses that comprise our Communication Systems segment, including $38 million of higher revenue from Tactical Communications, primarily due to strong readiness demand for U.S. Department of Defense tactical radios, and higher revenue in Public Safety and Professional Communications and Night Vision.



 28



The increase in segment gross margin and the decrease in segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily reflected higher volume and productivity savings, partially offset by program and business revenue mix. The slight increase in segment ESA expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected cost containment despite higher revenue, resulting in a lower segment ESA percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018.



The increases in segment operating income and segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 



Electronic Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The increase in segment revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to growth in Avionics, including $32 million from increased F-35 production, and in Electronic Warfare from F/A-18 and CV-22 platforms. 



The increase in segment gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher segment revenue. The decrease in segment gross margin percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to a less favorable mix of Avionics program revenue. ESA percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The increase in segment ESA expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher employment costs. 



The increase in segment operating income and increase in segment operating margin percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 



Space and Intelligence Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The increase in segment revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $32 million of higher revenue from classified programs, reflecting growth from small satellite and exquisite systems, partially offset by lower revenue from environmental programs.



 29



The increase in segment gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher segment revenue. Segment gross margin percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The increases in segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to higher bid and proposal costs and increased R&D investments in innovation. 



The decreases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.



Unallocated Corporate Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Unallocated corporate expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. 



Non-operating Income



Non-operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Non-operating income primarily reflects adjustments to adopt ASU 2017-07, which changed the presentation of components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs other than the service cost component in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).



Discontinued Operations



As described in more detail in Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes, IT Services and CapRock are reported as discontinued operations in this Report. 



LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES



Cash Flows



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash and cash equivalents: The $17 million net increase in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2018 to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to:



•$216 million of proceeds from borrowings (primarily under our commercial paper program); and



•$117 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by



•$200 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock;



•$82 million used to pay cash dividends; and 



•$31 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.



The $96 million net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2017 to the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to:



•$95 million of net cash provided by operating activities; and



•$14 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options; more than offset by



•$75 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; 



•$69 million used to pay cash dividends; 



 30



•$35 million of net repayment of borrowings; and



•$23 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.



At September 28, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $305 million, and we have a senior unsecured $1 billion revolving credit facility that expires in June 2023 (of which $710 million was available to us as of September 28, 2018, as a result of $290 million of short-term debt outstanding under our commercial paper program). Additionally, we had $3.7 billion of long-term debt outstanding at September 28, 2018, the majority of which we incurred in connection with our acquisition of Exelis in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. For further information regarding our long-term debt, see Note 12: “Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. Our $305 million of cash and cash equivalents at September 28, 2018 included $160 million held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $95 million was considered permanently reinvested. Determining the future tax cost of repatriating such funds to the U.S. is not practical at this time, because the cost impact of the rules regarding the netting of earnings of related foreign subsidiaries is subject to clarification. However, we have no current plans to repatriate such funds. 



Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.



We also currently believe that existing cash, funds generated from operations, our credit facility and access to the public and private debt and equity markets will be sufficient to provide for our anticipated working capital requirements, capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program and repayments of our term loan and debt securities at maturity for the next 12 months and the reasonably foreseeable future thereafter. Our total capital expenditures in fiscal 2019 are expected to be approximately $170 million. We anticipate tax payments in fiscal 2019 to be approximately equal to or marginally less than our tax expense for the same period, subject to adjustment for certain timing differences. Other than those cash outlays noted in “Contractual Obligations” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K (including repayment at maturity of the entire $300 million principal amount of our Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019) and “Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations” below in this MD&A, capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program and potential acquisitions, we do not anticipate any significant cash outlays during the remainder of fiscal 2019. 



There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions. If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.



Net cash provided by operating activities: The $22 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the impact of higher net income, a $47 million decrease in cash used to fund working capital and a $23 million decrease in cash used for matching contributions to defined contribution plans, partially offset by an increase in income taxes paid.



Net cash used in investing activities: The $8 million increase in net cash used in investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to an increase in cash used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.



Net cash used in financing activities: The $105 million decrease in net cash used in financing activities in the first quarter ended of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter ended of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $251 million more in net proceeds from borrowings, including a $215 million increase in borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program, partially offset by $125 million more used to repurchase shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program and $13 million more used to pay cash dividends.



 31



Funding of Pension Plans



Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans. Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds. Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments. With respect to our U.S. qualified pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.



The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020. We made voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified pension plans of $300 million and $400 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, respectively. As a result, we anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.



Future required contributions primarily will depend on the actual annual return on assets and the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation at the end of each year. Depending on these factors, and the resulting funded status of our pension plans, the level of future statutory required minimum contributions could be material. We had net unfunded defined benefit plan obligations of $674 million at September 28, 2018. See Note 13: “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K and Note K — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information regarding our pension plans.



Common Stock Repurchases 



During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share. During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we used $75 million to repurchase 617,311 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $121.51, including commissions of $.02 per share. In the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, $18 million and $9 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards. Shares purchased by us are cancelled and retired. 



As of September 28, 2018, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $501 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date. Repurchases under our repurchase program are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will not make repurchases of our common stock at least until after closing of the pending merger, without L3’s consent. Additional information regarding our repurchase program is set forth in this Report under Part II. Item 2. “Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”



Dividends



On August 25, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.570 per share to $.685 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.740 per share, which was our seventeenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate. Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2018 was $2.280 per share. There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase. Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December. We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends. The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.



Capital Structure and Resources



2018 Credit Agreement: We have a $1 billion, 5-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2018 Credit Facility”) under a Revolving Credit Agreement (the “2018 Credit Agreement”) entered into on June 26, 2018 with a syndicate of lenders. For a description of the 2018 Credit Facility and the 2018 Credit Agreement, see Note 11: “Credit Arrangements” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.



We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2018 Credit Agreement at September 28, 2018, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2018 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00. At September 28, 2018, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2018 Credit 



 32



Agreement but we had $290 million in borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program that was supported by the 2018 Credit Facility.



Long-Term Debt: For a description of our long-term variable-rate and fixed-rate debt, see Note 12: “Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.



Short-Term Debt: Our short-term debt at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018 was $294 million and $78 million, respectively. Our short-term debt at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018 consisted of commercial paper and local borrowing by international subsidiaries for working capital needs. Our commercial paper program was supported at September 28, 2018 and June 29, 2018 by the 2018 Credit Facility.



Other Agreements: We have a RSA with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time. From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution and which we account for as sales of receivables with sale proceeds included in net cash from operating activities. The impact to net cash from operating activities from these transactions was not material in the first quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



In accordance with the definition under SEC rules, any of the following qualify as off-balance sheet arrangements:



•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;



•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with the registrant.



As of September 28, 2018, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above. As of September 28, 2018, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that we believe are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



We have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, we often provide representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as environmental liabilities and tax liabilities. We cannot estimate the potential liability from such representations, warranties and indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. We do not believe, however, that the liabilities relating to these representations, warranties and indemnities will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



Due to our downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by us have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. We believe that the financial risk of default by such sublessees is individually and in the aggregate not material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations 



The amounts disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K include our contractual obligations and commercial commitments. Except for changes in our short-term debt as described under “Capital Structure and Resources” in this MD&A, no material changes occurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 in our contractual cash obligations to repay debt, to purchase goods and services, to make payments under operating leases or our commercial commitments, or in our contingent liabilities on outstanding surety bonds, standby letters of credit or other arrangements as disclosed in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.



In connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, we have a contractual obligation to issue 1.30 shares of our common stock for each share of L3 common stock outstanding at closing of the pending merger, and we expect to incur other expenses, such as transaction costs, other payments required as a result of the merger and integration and post-closing restructuring costs. See Note R — Subsequent Events in the Notes for further information. In addition, we may have obligations under other contractual arrangements that are accelerated or otherwise impacted as a result of the merger.



 33



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and backlog as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from our estimates. These estimates and assumptions are affected by the application of our accounting policies. Effective June 30, 2018, we adopted ASC 606, a new revenue recognition standard under which revenue is recognized as control transfers to the customer. The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations. Under ASC 606, revenue for our contracts is generally recognized over time using the cost-to-cost method, which is consistent with the revenue recognition model we used for the majority of our contracts prior to the adoption of this standard. In most cases, the accounting for contracts where we previously recognized revenue as units were delivered has changed under ASC 606 such that we now recognize revenue as costs are incurred. In addition, for certain of our contracts, there is a change in the number of performance obligations under ASC 606, which has altered the timing of revenue and margin recognition. See “Significant Accounting Policies Update” in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for a description of our updated revenue recognition accounting policies and other significant accounting policies updated in connection with our adoption of ASC 606. Refer to Note 1: “Significant Accounting Policies” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K for all other significant accounting policies. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies and estimates for us include: (i) revenue recognition on contracts and contract estimates (discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs), (ii) postretirement benefit plans, (iii) provisions for excess and obsolete inventory losses, (iv) impairment testing of goodwill, and (v) income taxes and tax valuation allowances. For additional discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K.



Revenue Recognition



A significant portion of our business is derived from development and production contracts. Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized over time, typically using the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, whereby we measure our progress toward completion of performance obligations based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract. Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer. We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, and this includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We include such estimated amounts in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.



Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance. Recognition of profit on a contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and transaction price and the measurement of progress towards completion. Due to the long-term nature of many of our contracts, developing the estimated total cost at completion and total transaction price often requires judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include: the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance and the risk and impact of delayed performance. Factors that must be considered in estimating the total transaction price include contractual cost or performance incentives (such as incentive fees, award fees and penalties) and other forms of variable consideration as well as our historical experience and expectation for performance on the contract. At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard EAC process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected award fees. When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods. Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.



 34



EAC adjustments had the following impacts to operating income for the periods presented: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The reduction in benefit to operating income from net EAC adjustments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to lower net risk retirements.



We also recognize revenue from contracts with multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation. The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as bundled sale with any other products or services). The allocation of transaction price among separate performance obligations may impact the timing of revenue recognition but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract. Our contracts with the U.S. Government, including foreign military sales contracts, are subject to the FAR and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin. As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby, eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations. In our non-U.S. Government contracts, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price. In addition, we determine standalone selling price for certain contracts that are commercial in nature based on observable selling prices. In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available. We may also consider our cost structure and pricing objectives, the nature of the proposal, the effects of customization of pricing, our practices used to establish pricing of bundled products, the expected technological life of the product, margins earned on similar contracts with different customers and other factors to determine the appropriate margin. 



Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards



Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS



This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words or expressions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results. Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:



•We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or 



 35



more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.



•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods.



•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.



•We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs, and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.



•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.



•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.



•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.



•Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets.



•We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.



•We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.



•Strategic transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•Disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.



•Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.



•The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable, and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.



•Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.



•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.



•A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business.



•Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption.



•Changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations.



•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.



•We must attract and retain key employees, and any failure to do so could seriously harm us.



Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report. The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not 



 36



known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise. For further information concerning risk factors see Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report.



