Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.



In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.



Foreign Exchange and Currency: We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge both balance sheet and off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging programs for foreign currency include accuracy of sales estimates, volatility of currency markets and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. A 10 percent change in currency exchange rates for our foreign currency derivatives held at March 29, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of such instruments or our results of operations or cash flows. This quantification of exposure to the market risk associated with foreign currency financial instruments does not take into account the offsetting impact of changes in the fair value of our foreign denominated assets, liabilities and firm commitments. See Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.



Interest Rates: At March 29, 2019, we had long-term fixed-rate debt obligations. The fair value of these obligations is impacted by changes in interest rates; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for our long-term fixed-rate debt obligations at March 29, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these obligations. Additionally, there is no interest-rate risk associated with these obligations on our results of operations or cash flows, because the interest rates are fixed and because our long-term fixed-rate debt is not putable to us (i.e., not required to be redeemed by us prior to maturity). We can give no assurances, however, that interest rates will not change significantly or have a material effect on the fair value of our long-term debt obligations over the next twelve months.



At March 29, 2019, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $250 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020. These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at March 29, 2019 



 38



would not have had a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. See Note 13: “Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K for further information.



We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions. If the derivative instrument is designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such instrument are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense in the period in which the hedged transaction affects earnings.



At March 29, 2019, we had an outstanding yield-based treasury lock agreement with a notional amount of $400 million to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term notes to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020. An unrealized after-tax loss of $8 million associated with this treasury lock was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at March 29, 2019. A 10 percent change in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate would not have had a material impact on the fair value of this treasury lock agreement or our results of operations or cash flows. See Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.



