Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.



In the normal course of business, we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks. There were no material changes during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 with respect to the information appearing in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K.



 49



Foreign Exchange and Currency: Our U.S. and foreign businesses enter into contracts with customers, subcontractors or vendors that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies. We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge both balance sheet and off-balance sheet future foreign currency transactions. Factors that could impact the effectiveness of our hedging programs for foreign currency exchange risk include the accuracy of sales estimates, volatility of currency markets and the cost and availability of hedging instruments. A 10 percent change in currency exchange rates for our foreign currency derivatives held at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of such instruments or our results of operations or cash flows. This quantification of exposure to the market risk associated with foreign currency financial instruments does not take into account the offsetting impact of changes in the fair value of our foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities and firm commitments. See Note U — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.



Interest Rates: At September 27, 2019, we had long-term fixed-rate debt obligations. The fair value of these obligations is impacted by changes in interest rates; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for our long-term fixed-rate debt obligations at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these obligations. Additionally, there is no interest-rate risk associated with these obligations on our results of operations or cash flows, because the interest rates are fixed and because our long-term fixed-rate debt is not putable to us (i.e., not required to be redeemed by us prior to maturity). We can give no assurances, however, that interest rates will not change significantly or have a material effect on the fair value of our long-term debt obligations over the next twelve months.



At September 27, 2019, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $250 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020. These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. See Note M — Debt in the Notes for further information.



We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions. If the derivative instrument is designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such instrument are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense in the period in which the hedged transaction affects earnings.



At September 27, 2019, we had three outstanding treasury lock agreements, with a notional amount of $1.05 billion, to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 and the entire $650 million outstanding principal amount of the 4.95% Notes due February 15, 2021. We designated these treasury locks as cash flow hedges against fluctuations in interest payments on the Notes due to changes in the benchmark interest rate prior to issuance, which we expect to occur before the date of maturity of the 2020 Notes and 2021 Notes. An unrealized after-tax loss of $54 million associated with these treasury locks was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 27, 2019. A 10 percent change in the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these treasury lock agreements or our results of operations or cash flows. See Note U — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.



 50



