Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



OVERVIEW



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report. In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Except for the historical information contained herein, the discussions in this MD&A contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our future results could differ materially from those discussed herein. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below in this MD&A under “Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results.”



The following is a list of the sections of this MD&A, together with our perspective on their contents, which we hope will assist in reading these pages:



•Results of Operations — an analysis of our consolidated results of operations and the results in each of our business segments, to the extent the segment operating results are helpful to an understanding of our business as a whole, for the periods presented in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).



•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.



•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — information about accounting policies that require critical judgments and estimates and about accounting standards that have been issued, but are not yet effective for us, and their potential impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.



•Forward-Looking Statements and Factors that May Affect Future Results — cautionary information about forward-looking statements and a description of certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections.



We report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three segments, which are also referred to as our business segments:



•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 



•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and C4ISR solutions for the defense industry and ATM solutions for the civil aviation industry; and



•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. 



As described in more detail in “Basis of Presentation” in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards and Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes, in connection with our divestiture of CapRock and entering into the definitive agreement to sell IT Services in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, our other remaining operations that had been part of our former Critical Networks segment, including our ATM business primarily serving the FAA, were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated. The historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes and this MD&A reflect the impact of these changes for all periods presented in order to present all segment information on a comparable basis. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets or statements of cash flows resulting from these segment changes. 



Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications. Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes. 



Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding. 



 22



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Highlights



Operations results for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, in each case compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017, included:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net cash provided by operating activities decreased 53 percent to $230 million, reflecting our $300 million voluntary pension contribution, in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 from $489 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017. 



Consolidated Results of Operations



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 23



Revenue



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increase in revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was due to higher revenue in all three segments. 



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in revenue in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was due to the same reason as noted above regarding the third quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.



Gross Margin



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increase in gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three segments, productivity savings and incremental pension income, partially offset by a less favorable mix of program revenue and product sales.



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in gross margin in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding the third quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 as well as an unfavorable impact from the Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (“ADS-B”) program, including a favorable contract settlement in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and the program transition from build-out to sustainment.



See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.



Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increases in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses and ESA as a percentage of total revenue (“ESA percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to $45 million of charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and higher research and development costs, partially offset by not incurring in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $8 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017.



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in ESA expenses and comparability of ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by not incurring in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $38 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017.



See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.



Operating Income



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The decreases in operating income and operating income as a percentage of total revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the third quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in operating income and comparability of operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



 24



Income Taxes



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 5.6 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with 29.6 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2017. In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, our effective tax rate was impacted by a $33 million favorable adjustment to our provisional deferred tax balances estimated in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the second quarter of fiscal 2018. This adjustment was primarily due to revaluing our deferred tax asset related to our $300 million voluntary pension contribution made during the third quarter of fiscal 2018. In the third quarter of fiscal 2017, our effective tax rate benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, by differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments and by additional deductions and additional research credits claimed on our fiscal 2016 tax return compared with our recorded estimates at the end of fiscal 2016, partially offset by the recognition of certain tax expenses following our classification of CapRock and IT Services as discontinued operations. 



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: Our effective tax rate was 24.6 percent in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with 29.7 percent in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017. In the three quarters ended March 30, 2018, our effective tax rate was impacted by a $19 million estimated write-down of existing net deferred tax asset balances due to the enactment of lower U.S. statutory corporate income tax rates and other tax law changes, the corresponding impact of our lower estimated fiscal 2018 tax rate and the favorable impact of releasing provisions for uncertain tax positions. In the three quarters ended March 31, 2017, our effective tax rate was impacted by the discrete items noted above favorably impacting the quarter ended March 31, 2017. 



Income From Continuing Operations



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increase in income from continuing operations in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the third quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in income from continuing operations in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and fewer diluted weighted average common shares outstanding due to repurchases of shares of common stock under our repurchase program during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 and first three quarters of fiscal 2018.



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding the third quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



See “Common Stock Repurchases” below in this MD&A for further information.



 25



Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations



Communication Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to growth in Tactical Communications and Night Vision. The increase in Tactical Communications revenue was due to $39 million higher U.S. Department of Defense tactical radio sales, reflecting readiness demand from the U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force, partially offset by $31 million lower international tactical communications revenue. The increase in Night Vision revenue was primarily due to demand from the U.S. Army.



The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue. Segment gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was comparable with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 as the impact of a less favorable mix of program and product sales was offset by productivity savings. The increase in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher employment and distribution costs. 



The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increases in segment revenue and segment gross margin in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 



Segment gross margin percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 decreased slightly compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a less favorable mix of program revenue and product sales, mostly offset by productivity savings. The slight decrease in segment ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to cost containment. 



The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



 26



Electronic Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $25 million of higher revenue from Avionics, reflecting growth on the F-35 and other international platforms, and higher revenue from C4ISR (including wireless solutions), Mission Networks and Electronic Warfare, with growth on the F-16 and F/A-18 platforms. 



The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue and productivity savings, partially offset by a less favorable mix of program revenue. The decrease in segment gross margin percentage was primarily due to a less favorable mix of program revenue, partially offset by productivity savings. The increases in segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to higher R&D expenses and timing of other expense accruals. 



The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment. 



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $77 million of higher revenue from Avionics and C4ISR, including wireless solutions, higher revenue from Electronic Warfare and $13 million of incremental inception-to-date services revenue in our ATM business, partially offset by a $36 million unfavorable impact from the ADS-B program, including the favorable contract settlement in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and the program transition from build-out to sustainment. 



Segment gross margin decreased $24 million and segment gross margin percentage decreased 3 percentage points in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 as the benefit of higher volume, productivity savings and higher pension income was more than offset by a $36 million unfavorable impact from the ADS-B program, including the favorable contract settlement in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and the program transition from build-out to sustainment, a less favorable mix of program revenue and a reduction in benefits from net EAC adjustments. The increase in segment ESA expenses and the comparability of ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to higher R&D expenses and the timing of other expense accruals. 



The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 



 27



Space and Intelligence Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $15 million of higher revenue from classified programs, reflecting the ramp of small satellite, ground-based processing and space surveillance programs, partially offset by lower civil revenue reflecting the impact of lower revenue from environmental programs.



The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to higher revenue, incremental pension income and a more favorable mix of program revenue. Segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage were comparable in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 with the third quarter of fiscal 2017.



The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $41 million of higher revenue from classified programs, primarily driven by space superiority programs, partially offset by lower civil revenue reflecting lower revenue from environmental programs.



The increases in segment gross margin, gross margin percentage and ESA expenses and the comparability of ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 



The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017. 



Unallocated Corporate Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The increase in unallocated corporate expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $45 million of charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business, partially offset by the absence of Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $8 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and the timing of other expense accruals.



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The increase in unallocated corporate expense in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $45 million of charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of 



 28



business in the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and a $12 million non-cash charge from an adjustment for deferred compensation in the quarter ended December 29, 2017, partially offset by the absence in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 of any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $38 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017.



Discontinued Operations



As described in more detail in Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes, IT Services and CapRock are reported as discontinued operations in this Report. 



LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES



Cash Flows



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited) includes cash flows from discontinued operations related to CapRock, IT Services and our former broadcast communications business (“Broadcast Communications”). See Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes for additional information regarding discontinued operations, including depreciation, amortization and capital expenditures. Except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), the accompanying Notes and this MD&A relate solely to our continuing operations.



Cash and cash equivalents 



The $41 million net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2017 to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to:



•$230 million of net cash provided by operating activities, reflecting the impact of a $300 million voluntary pension contribution; [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•$31 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options; more than offset by



•$205 million used to pay cash dividends; 



•$197 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; and 



•$79 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.



The $185 million net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2016 to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to:



•$489 million of net cash provided by operating activities; 



•$375 million in net cash proceeds from the sale of CapRock; and 



•$50 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options; more than offset by



•$460 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; 



•$313 million of net repayment of borrowings, including $248 million of repayment of our variable-rate term loans and $250 million of repayment of the entire outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 4.25% notes due October 1, 2016; 



•$199 million used to pay cash dividends; 



•$79 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment; 



•$25 million for adjustments to proceeds from the sale of a business; and 



•$20 million used in other financing activities.



 29



At March 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $443 million, and we have a senior unsecured $1 billion revolving credit facility that expires in July 2020 (all of which was available to us as of March 30, 2018). Additionally, we had $4.2 billion of long-term debt outstanding at March 30, 2018, the majority of which we incurred in connection with our acquisition of Exelis in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. For further information regarding our long-term debt, see Note J — Long-Term Debt in the Notes and Note 13: “Long-Term Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Our $443 million of cash and cash equivalents at March 30, 2018 included $137 million held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $78 million was considered permanently reinvested. Determining the future tax cost of repatriating such funds to the U.S. is not practical at this time, because the cost impact of the rules regarding the netting of earnings of related foreign subsidiaries is subject to clarification. However, we have no current plans to repatriate such funds. 



Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.



We also currently believe that existing cash, funds generated from operations, our credit facility and access to the public and private debt and equity markets will be sufficient to provide for our anticipated working capital requirements, capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program and repayments of our term loan and debt securities at maturity for the next 12 months and the reasonably foreseeable future thereafter. Our total capital expenditures in fiscal 2018 are expected to be approximately $130 million. We anticipate tax payments in fiscal 2018 to be less than our tax expense for the same period, subject to adjustment for certain timing differences. Other than those cash outlays noted in “Contractual Obligations” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K (including repayment at maturity of the entire $500 million principal amount of our 1.999% Notes due April 27, 2018) and “Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations” below in this MD&A, capital expenditures, dividend payments, and repurchases under our share repurchase program, no other significant cash outlays are anticipated during the remainder of fiscal 2018. 



There can be no assurance, however, that our business will continue to generate cash flows at current levels or that the cost or availability of future borrowings, if any, under our commercial paper program or our credit facility or in the debt markets will not be impacted by any potential future credit or capital markets disruptions. If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing. Our ability to make principal payments or pay interest on or refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general conditions in or affecting the defense, government and other markets we serve and to general economic, political, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors beyond our control.



Net cash provided by operating activities: The $259 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a $158 million increase in pension contributions, including a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 (see the “Funding of Pension Plans” discussion below in this MD&A for additional information), higher relative accounts receivable and inventory balances and the absence in fiscal 2018 of cash flows from discontinued operations that were included in the first three quarters of fiscal 2017, partially offset by lower net income tax payments.



Net cash used in investing activities: The $352 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the absence in fiscal 2018 of $375 million in proceeds from the sale of businesses that occurred in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, partially offset by a $25 million adjustment in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to the proceeds from the sale of Broadcast Communications.



Net cash used in financing activities: The $746 million decrease in net cash used in financing activities in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $317 million more proceeds from borrowings, $263 million less used to repurchase shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program and $181 million less used to repay borrowings.



 30



Funding of Pension Plans



Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans. Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds. Failure to satisfy the minimum funding thresholds could result in restrictions on our ability to amend the plans or make benefit payments. With respect to our U.S. qualified pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.



The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020. We made voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified pension plans of $300 million and $400 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, respectively. As a result, we anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2018.



Future required contributions primarily will depend on the actual annual return on assets and the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation at the end of each year. Depending on these factors, and the resulting funded status of our pension plans, the level of future statutory required minimum contributions could be material. We had net unfunded defined benefit plan obligations of $868 million at March 30, 2018. See Note 14: “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K and Note K — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information regarding our pension plans.



Common Stock Repurchases 



During the first three quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $197 million to repurchase 1,466,713 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $134.36, including commissions of $.01 per share. During the first three quarters of fiscal 2017, we used $460 million to repurchase 4,408,469 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $104.38, including the $350 million we paid on February 6, 2017 for 2,929,879 and 277,357 shares of our common stock we received in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2017, respectively, under a fixed-dollar accelerated share repurchase transaction agreement we entered into February 6, 2017. In the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, $10 million and $20 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards. Shares purchased by us are cancelled and retired. 



As of March 30, 2018, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $776 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date. Repurchases under our repurchase program are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof. The level of our repurchases depends on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Additional information regarding our repurchase program is set forth in this Report under Part II. Item 2. “Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”



Dividends



On August 25, 2017, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.53 per share to $.57 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.28 per share, which was our sixteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate. Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2017 was $2.12 per share. There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase. Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December. We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends. The declaration of dividends and the amount thereof will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, capital requirements, cash flows, results of operations, future business prospects and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant.



Capital Structure and Resources



2015 Credit Agreement: We have a $1 billion, 5-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2015 Credit Facility”) under a Revolving Credit Agreement (the “2015 Credit Agreement”) entered into on July 1, 2015 with a syndicate of lenders. For a description of the 2015 Credit Facility and the 2015 Credit Agreement, see Note 11: “Credit Arrangements” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.



We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2015 Credit Agreement at March 30, 2018, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2015 Credit 



 31



Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00. At March 30, 2018, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2015 Credit Agreement.



Long-Term Debt: For a description of our long-term variable-rate and fixed-rate debt, see Note J — Long-Term Debt



in the Notes and Note 13: “Long-Term Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.



During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020 and used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015.



During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $300 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019 and used the proceeds to make a voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans.



Short-Term Debt: Our short-term debt at March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017 was $5 million and $80 million, respectively. Our short-term debt at March 30, 2018 consisted of local borrowing by international subsidiaries for working capital needs. Our short-term debt at June 30, 2017 consisted of local borrowing by international subsidiaries for working capital needs and commercial paper. Our commercial paper program was supported at March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017 by the 2015 Credit Facility.



Other Agreements: We have a RSA with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time. From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution and which we account for as sales of receivables with sale proceeds included in net cash from operating activities. The impact to net cash from operating activities from these transactions was not material in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



In accordance with the definition under SEC rules, any of the following qualify as off-balance sheet arrangements:



•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;



•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with the registrant.



As of March 30, 2018, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above. As of March 30, 2018, we did not have material financial guarantees or other contractual commitments that are reasonably likely to adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, and we were not a party to any related party transactions that materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



We have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, we often provide representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as environmental liabilities and tax liabilities. We cannot estimate the potential liability from such representations, warranties and indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. We do not believe, however, that the liabilities relating to these representations, warranties and indemnities will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



Due to our downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, divestitures, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by us have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. We believe that the financial risk of default by such sublessees is individually and in the aggregate not material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



 32



Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations 



The amounts disclosed in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K include our contractual obligations and commercial commitments. Except for changes in our long-term debt as described under “Capital Structure and Resources” in this MD&A, no material changes occurred during the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 in our contractual cash obligations to repay debt, to purchase goods and services, to make payments under operating leases or our commercial commitments, or in our contingent liabilities on outstanding surety bonds, standby letters of credit or other arrangements as disclosed in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses as well as disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from our estimates. These estimates and assumptions are affected by the application of our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1: “Significant Accounting Policies” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods. Critical accounting policies and estimates for us include: (i) revenue recognition on contracts and contract estimates (discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs), (ii) postretirement benefit plans, (iii) provisions for excess and obsolete inventory losses, (iv) impairment testing of goodwill, and (v) income taxes and tax valuation allowances. For additional discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.



Revenue Recognition



A significant portion of our business is derived from development and production contracts. Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit. The majority of the revenue in our Space and Intelligence Systems and Electronic Systems segments (and to a certain extent, revenue in our Communication Systems segment) relates to development and production contracts, and the POC method of revenue recognition is primarily used for these contracts. Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable. Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs. We are party to certain contracts with incentive provisions or award fees that are subject to uncertainty until the conclusion of the contract, and our customers may be entitled to reclaim and receive previous award fee payments. 



Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance. Recognition of profit on fixed-price development and production contracts requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion. The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion. Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete. At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations. After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently. If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks. Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion. Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract. As the cost-reimbursable contract progresses, our estimates of total contract value may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive higher or lower than expected award fees. When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods. Anticipated losses on development and production contracts or programs in progress are charged to operating income when identified. We have not made any material changes in the methodologies used to recognize revenue on development and production contracts or to estimate our costs related to development and production contracts in the past three fiscal years.



 33



EAC adjustments had the following impacts to operating income for the periods presented: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2018 Compared With Third Quarter 2017: The reduction in benefit to operating income from net EAC adjustments in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the third quarter quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to lower net risk retirements.



First Three Quarters 2018 Compared With First Three Quarters 2017: The reduction in benefit to operating income from net EAC adjustments in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a $15 million adjustment for growth in EAC costs on a mission networks infrastructure development program. 



We also recognize revenue from arrangements requiring the delivery or performance of multiple deliverables or elements under a bundled sale. In these arrangements, judgment is required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and the timing of revenue recognition for each deliverable. If we determine that individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting, we recognize the revenue associated with each unit of accounting separately, and contract revenue is allocated among the separate units of accounting at the inception of the arrangement based on relative selling price. If options or change orders materially change the scope of work or price of the contract subsequent to inception, we reevaluate and adjust our prior conclusions regarding units of accounting and allocation of contract revenue as necessary. The allocation of selling price among the separate units of accounting may impact the timing of revenue recognition, but will not change the total revenue recognized on the arrangement. We establish the selling price used for each deliverable based on the vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of selling price, or third-party evidence (“TPE”) of selling price if VSOE of selling price is not available, or best estimate of selling price (“BESP”) if neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price is available. In determining VSOE of selling price, a substantial majority of the recent standalone sales of the deliverable must be priced within a relatively narrow range. In determining TPE of selling price, we evaluate competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, comparable pricing of our products to those of our competitors with similar functionality cannot be obtained. In determining BESP, we consider both market data and entity-specific factors, including market conditions, the geographies in which our products are sold, our competitive position and strategy, and our profit objectives.



The FASB has issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and will be effective for us in fiscal 2019. See Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for additional information. 



Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards



Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.



 34



FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS



This Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that may not materialize or prove to be correct, which could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements concerning: our plans, strategies and objectives for future operations; new products, systems, technologies, services or developments; future economic conditions, performance or outlook; future political conditions; the outcome of contingencies; the potential level of share repurchases, dividends or pension contributions; potential acquisitions or divestitures; the value of contract awards and programs; expected cash flows or capital expenditures; our beliefs or expectations; activities, events or developments that we intend, expect, project, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future; and assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words or expressions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s opinions only as of the date of filing of this Report and are not guarantees of future performance or actual results. Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or our current expectations or projections:



•We depend on U.S. Government customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of these relationships, a reduction in U.S. Government funding or a change in U.S. Government spending priorities could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited. The termination or failure to fund, or negative audit findings for, one or more of these contracts could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We could be negatively impacted by a security breach, through cyber attack, cyber intrusion, insider threats or otherwise, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or of those we operate for certain of our customers.



•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as the U.S. Government’s inability to complete its budget process and consequently having to operate pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•The level of returns on defined benefit plan assets, changes in interest rates and other factors could affect our earnings and cash flows in future periods.



•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.



•We use estimates in accounting for many of our programs and changes in our estimates could adversely affect our future financial results.



•We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international operations and are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates.



•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.



•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.



•Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products, systems, services and technologies that achieve market acceptance in our current and future markets.



•We participate in markets that are often subject to uncertain economic conditions, which makes it difficult to estimate growth in our markets and, as a result, future income and expenditures.



•We cannot predict the consequences of future geo-political events, but they may adversely affect the markets in which we operate, our ability to insure against risks, our operations or our profitability.



•We have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions and divestitures that involve significant risks and uncertainties.



•Disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.



•Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that we are infringing directly or indirectly upon their intellectual property rights, and third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property rights.



 35



•The outcome of litigation or arbitration in which we are involved from time to time is unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We face certain significant risk exposures and potential liabilities that may not be covered adequately by insurance or indemnity.



•Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.



•Our level of indebtedness and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness and our unfunded defined benefit plans liability may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.



•A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business.



•Unforeseen environmental issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



•We have significant operations in locations that could be materially and adversely impacted in the event of a natural disaster or other significant disruption.



•Changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would adversely affect our results of operations.



•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.



•We must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us.



•We may be responsible for U.S. Federal income tax liabilities that relate to the spin-off of Vectrus, Inc. (“Vectrus”) completed by Exelis.



•In connection with the Vectrus spin-off, Vectrus indemnified Exelis for certain liabilities and Exelis indemnified Vectrus for certain liabilities. This indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Vectrus and Vectrus may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future.



•The Vectrus spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.



•The ITT Corporation (“ITT”) spin-off of Exelis may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.



•If we are required to indemnify ITT or Xylem, Inc. in connection with the ITT spin-off of Exelis, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and our financial results could be negatively impacted.



Additional details and discussions concerning some of the factors that could affect our forward-looking statements or future results are set forth in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report. The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K and in Part II. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or that we currently believe not to be material also may adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of filing of this Report, and we disclaim any intention or obligation, other than imposed by law, to update or revise any forward-looking statements or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or developments or otherwise.



