 Item 3.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 



Interest Rate Risk 



Interest on borrowings on our credit facilities are variable and tied to prevailing domestic and foreign interest rates. At January 31, 2019, we had no debt or borrowings under any of our credit facilities. 



Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 



In the first three months of fiscal 2019, we derived approximately 61% of our revenues from customers located outside of the Americas. All of our computerized machine tools and computer control systems, as well as certain proprietary service parts, are sourced by our U.S.-based engineering and manufacturing division and re-invoiced to our foreign sales and service subsidiaries, primarily in their functional currencies. 



Our products primarily are sourced from foreign suppliers or built to our specifications by either our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan, the U.S., Italy and China, or an affiliated contract manufacturer in Taiwan. Our purchases are predominantly in foreign currencies and in some cases our arrangements with these suppliers include foreign currency risk sharing agreements, which reduce (but do not eliminate) the effects of currency fluctuations on product costs. The predominant portion of the exchange rate risk associated with our product purchases relates to the New Taiwan Dollar and the Euro. 



We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar). We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies. We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment denominated in Euros. We do not speculate in the financial markets and, therefore, do not enter into these contracts for trading purposes. 



Forward contracts for the sale or purchase of foreign currencies as of January 31, 2019, which are designated as cash flow hedges under FASB guidance related to accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, were as follows (in thousands, except weighted average forward rates): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*New Taiwan Dollars per U.S. Dollar 



 25  



Forward contracts for the sale or purchase of foreign currencies as of January 31, 2019, which were entered into to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies and are not designated as hedges under FASB guidance, were as follows (in thousands, except weighted average forward rates): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* New Taiwan Dollars per U.S. Dollar 



We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to our investment in net assets in foreign countries. To manage this risk, we have maintained a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million. We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro-denominated assets. We selected the forward method under FASB guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets. This forward contract matures in November 2019. As of January 31, 2019, we had a realized gain of $804,000 and an unrealized loss of $1,000, net of tax, recorded as cumulative translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the hedging of our net investment in Euro-denominated assets. Forward contracts for the sale or purchase of foreign currencies as of January 31, 2019, which are designated as net investment hedges under this guidance were as follows (in thousands, except weighted average forward rates): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



