 Item 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) contains information intended to help provide an understanding of our financial condition and other related matters, including our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. The MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our unaudited financial statements and the notes accompanying our unaudited financial statements appearing elsewhere in this report, as well as our audited financial statements, the accompanying notes and the MD&A included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2018. 



EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 



Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service, training and applications support. 



The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance. This overview is intended to be read in conjunction with the more detailed information included in our financial statements that appear elsewhere in this report. 



The market for machine tools is international in scope. We have both significant foreign sales and significant foreign manufacturing operations. During the nine months of fiscal 2019, approximately 51% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines. Additionally, approximately 12% of our revenues were attributable to customers in the Asia Pacific region, where we encounter greater price pressures. 



We have three brands of CNC machine tools in our product portfolio: Hurco is the premium brand focused on innovative technology; Milltronics is the general purpose brand with a simplified control and straightforward feature sets; and Takumi is an industry-standard brand with machines that are equipped with industry-standard controls instead of the proprietary controls found on Hurco and Milltronics machines. Typically, manufacturing facilities that use industry-standard controls focus on medium to high production, wherein they run large batches of a few types of parts instead of small batches of many different types of parts. The Takumi brand is also targeted to die and mold customers. The Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines represent a comprehensive product portfolio of more than 150 different models. In addition, through our wholly-owned subsidiary LCM Precision Technology S.r.l. (“LCM”), we produce machine tool components and accessories. 



We principally sell our products through more than 170 independent agents and distributors throughout North and South America (the “Americas”), Europe and Asia. Although some distributors carry competitive products, we are the primary line for the majority of our distributors globally. We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consumption markets. The vast majority of our machine tools are manufactured to our specifications primarily by our wholly-owned subsidiary in Taiwan, HML. Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, NHML. Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy. 



20 



Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan). Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. GAAP. For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements, are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger. In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements. 



Our high levels of foreign manufacturing and sales also expose us to cash flow risks due to fluctuating currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments, principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts. See Note 3 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Three Months Ended July 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended July 31, 2018 



Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $58.5 million, a decrease of $20.3 million, or 26%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.9 million, or 2%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes.  



Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 



The following table sets forth net sales and service fees by geographic region for the quarters ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Sales in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 8% compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in sales for the third quarter fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from a U.S. machine tool distributor acquired by Hurco in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 located in California, one of the largest machine tool markets in the U.S., and increased customer demand for Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 31% compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. Sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The decrease in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany and the United Kingdom. Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 53% compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 



21 



Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 



The following table sets forth net sales and service fees by product category for the quarters ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 



Sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software decreased by 29% and 16%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines. Sales of service parts decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, primarily due to a reduction in aftermarket sales of service parts for all three product lines, Hurco, Takumi and Milltronics. Service fees increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 by 2%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily attributable to aftermarket service from the newly acquired distributor. 



Orders. Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $53.0 million, a decrease of $23.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 2%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 



The following table sets forth new orders booked by geographic region for the quarters ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to decreased customer demand in the U.S. for Hurco vertical milling machines, partially offset by an increase in orders for Takumi vertical milling machines and vertical milling machines sold by the newly acquired distributor. European orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 39%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by LCM. Asian Pacific orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by 37%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of 2% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The decrease in orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was mainly the result of decreased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in India and Southeast Asia and Takumi bridge mill machines in China. 



Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $17.2 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $24.5 million, or 31% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 remained generally stable at approximately 30%, despite the reduction in sales volume year over year, due to an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales and margin contribution from vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor. 



22 



Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 were $12.6 million, or 22% of sales, compared to $15.2 million, or 19% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included a favorable currency impact of $278,000 when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The decrease in year-over-year selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily related to decreased variable employee compensation and other operating expense reductions implemented during the year, partially offset by increased operating expenses associated with the newly acquired distributor. 



Operating Income. Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $4.6 million, compared to $9.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by the reduction in sales volume. 



Other Income (Expense), Net. Other expense, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased by $0.4 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 



Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was 25%, compared to 28% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the third quarter was primarily due to a shift in taxable income and loss among the various geographic regions. 



Nine Months Ended July 31, 2019 Compared to Nine Months Ended July 31, 2018 



Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $203.4 million, a decrease of $14.2 million, or 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $7.3 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 



Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 



The following table sets forth net sales and service fees by geographic region for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Sales in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 19%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The increase in sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to sales of vertical milling machines from the newly acquired distributor, and increased customer demand for Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi vertical milling machines in the U.S. European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 14%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. Sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 included an unfavorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The decrease in European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany and the United Kingdom. Asian Pacific sales for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 28%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in Asian Pacific sales for nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily attributable to decreased shipments of Hurco vertical milling machines and Takumi bridge mill machines in China and an unfavorable currency impact of 3% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 



23 



Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 



The following table sets forth net sales and service fees by product category for the nine months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 



Sales of computerized machine tools for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 8%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 3% when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The decrease was primarily attributable to a reduced volume of shipments of Hurco and Takumi machines in Europe and China. Sales of computer control systems and software increased by 4%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due mainly to an increase in aftermarket software sales in France and the Americas. Sales of service parts and service fees increased in the nine months of fiscal 2019 by 4% each, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to sales of aftermarket sales and service by the newly acquired distributor. 



Orders. Orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $188.2 million, a decrease of $44.6 million, or 19%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and included an unfavorable currency impact of $7.2 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 



The following table sets forth new orders booked by geographic region for the nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Orders in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 3% due to increased customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines and vertical milling machines sold by the newly acquired distributor. European orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 28%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders were driven primarily by decreased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France, as well as a decrease in customer demand for electro-mechanical components and accessories manufactured by LCM. Asian Pacific orders for the nine months of fiscal 2019 decreased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included an unfavorable currency impact of 4% when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year decrease in orders was primarily due to decreased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi machines in China and India. 



Gross Profit. Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was $61.0 million, or 30% of sales, compared to $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2019 remained generally stable at approximately 30%, despite the reduction in sales volume year over year, due to an increased mix of larger, higher-priced vertical milling machine sales and margin contribution from vertical milling machine sales from the newly acquired distributor. 



24 



Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months of fiscal 2019 were $40.6 million, or 20% of sales, compared to $41.4 million, or 19% of sales, in the prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.2 million when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The year-over-year decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily related to decreased variable employee compensation and other operating expense reductions implemented during the year, partially offset by increased operating expenses associated with the newly acquired distributor. 



Operating Income. Operating income for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was $20.4 million, compared to $22.5 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2018. The decrease in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by the reduction in sales volume. 



Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net in the nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by $1.4 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 



Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2019 was 28%, compared to 40% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months was primarily due to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.  



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  



At July 31, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $66.1 million, compared to $77.2 million at October 31, 2018. Approximately 60% of the $66.1 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The balance is attributable to our foreign operations and is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities, subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs. 



Working capital was $206.7 million at July 31, 2019, compared to $194.6 million at October 31, 2018. The increase in working capital was primarily due to an increase in inventories and decreases in accounts payable and accrued payroll and employee benefits. 



Capital expenditures of $4.0 million during the nine months of fiscal 2019 were primarily for capital improvements in existing facilities and software development costs. We funded these expenditures with cash on hand. 



See Note 10 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our credit facilities. As of July 31, 2019, there were no borrowings under any of our credit facilities, there was $51.2 million of available borrowing capacity thereunder and we were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto. 



We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 



We continue to receive and review information on businesses and assets for potential acquisition, including intellectual property assets that are available for purchase. 



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 



Our accounting policies, which are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018, require management to make significant estimates and assumptions using information available at the time the estimates are made. These estimates and assumptions significantly affect various reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. If our future experience differs materially from these estimates and assumptions, our results of operations and financial condition would be affected. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the nine months of fiscal 2019. 



25 



CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 



There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2018. 



OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 



From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of July 31, 2019, we had 24 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership and control. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 



CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 



Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We discuss these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations in Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and may update that discussion in Part II, Item 1A – Risk Factors in this report or a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q we file hereafter. 



Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. While we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this report. 



26 



 Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS  



We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. 



 Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION  



During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services. This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 



30 



 Item 6.EXHIBITS  



EXHIBIT INDEX 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



31 



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



32
