 Item 2.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) contains information intended to help provide an understanding of our financial condition and other related matters, including our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. The MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our unaudited financial statements and the notes accompanying our unaudited financial statements appearing elsewhere in this report, as well as our audited financial statements, the accompanying notes and the MD&A included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2017. 



EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 



Hurco Companies, Inc. is an international industrial technology company operating in a single segment. We design, manufacture and sell computerized (i.e., Computer Numeric Control, or CNC) machine tools, consisting primarily of vertical machining centers (mills) and turning centers (lathes), to companies in the metal cutting industry through a worldwide sales, service and distribution network. Although the majority of our computer control systems and software products are proprietary, they predominantly use industry standard personal computer components. Our computer control systems and software products are primarily sold as integral components of our computerized machine tool products. We also provide machine tool components, software options, control upgrades, accessories and replacement parts for our products, as well as customer service and training support. 



The following overview is intended to provide a brief explanation of the principal factors that have contributed to our recent financial performance. This overview is intended to be read in conjunction with the more detailed information included in our financial statements that appear elsewhere in this report. 



The market for machine tools is international in scope. We have both significant foreign sales and significant foreign manufacturing operations. During the nine months of fiscal 2018, approximately 55% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Europe, where we typically sell more of our higher-performance, higher-priced VMX series machines. Additionally, approximately 16% of our revenues were attributable to customers in Asia, where we generally sell more of our entry-level, lower-priced machines, and where we also encounter greater price pressures. 



We have three brands of CNC machine tools in our product portfolio: Hurco is the premium brand focused on sophisticated technology; Milltronics is the entry-level brand with a simplified control and straight-forward feature sets; and Takumi is an industry-standard brand with machines that are equipped with industry standard controls instead of the proprietary controls found on Hurco and Milltronics machines. Typically, manufacturing facilities that use industry standard controls focus on medium to high production, wherein they run large batches of a few types of parts instead of small batches of many different types of parts. The Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines represent a comprehensive product portfolio of more than 150 different models. In addition, through our wholly–owned subsidiary LCM Precision Technology S.r.l. (“LCM”), we produce machine tool components and accessories. 



We sell our products through more than 190 independent agents and distributors throughout the North and South America (the “Americas”), Europe and Asia. Although some distributors carry competitive products, we are the primary line for the majority of our distributors globally. We also have our own direct sales and service organizations in China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Taiwan, the United Kingdom and certain parts of the United States, which are among the world’s principal machine tool consuming markets. The vast majority of our machine tools are manufactured to our specifications primarily by our wholly-owned subsidiary in Taiwan, Hurco Manufacturing Ltd. (“HML”). Machine castings and components to support HML’s production are manufactured at our wholly-owned subsidiary in Ningbo, China, Ningbo Machine Tool Co., Ltd. Components to support our SRT line of five-axis machining centers, such as the direct drive spindle, swivel head and rotary table, are manufactured by LCM in Italy. 



 20  



Our sales to foreign customers are denominated, and payments by those customers are made, in the prevailing currencies in the countries in which those customers are located (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling and Chinese Yuan). Our product costs are incurred and paid primarily in the New Taiwan Dollar and the U.S. Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates may have a material effect on our operating results and consolidated financial statements as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. For example, when the U.S. Dollar weakens in value relative to a foreign currency, sales made, and expenses incurred, in that currency when translated to U.S. Dollars for reporting in our financial statements are higher than would be the case when the U.S. Dollar is stronger. In the comparison of our period-to-period results, we discuss the effect of currency translation on those results, which reflect translation to U.S. Dollars at exchange rates prevailing during the period covered by those financial statements. 



Our high levels of foreign manufacturing and sales also expose us to cash flow risks due to fluctuating currency exchange rates. We seek to mitigate those risks through the use of various derivative instruments – principally foreign currency forward exchange contracts. See Note 2 of Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Three Months Ended July 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended July 31, 2017 



Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $78.8 million, an increase of $18.0 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding prior year period and included a favorable currency impact of $1.8 million, or 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 



Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 



The following table sets forth net sales and service fees by geographic region for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Sales in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 13%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines. European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 31%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 4%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in European sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and France. Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 55%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 3%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling and lathe machines in China and India. 



 21  



Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 



The following table sets forth net sales and service fees by product category for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 (dollars in thousands): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine systems. 



The year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools and computer control systems and software for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, exclusive of a 3% favorable currency impact, was driven primarily by an increase in the volume of sales of vertical milling machines from all product lines and across all of our three geographic regions. Sales of service parts increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to an increase in aftermarket sales in the Americas and France. Service fees increased slightly in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior year period, due primarily to increased demand for aftermarket service in the United Kingdom and the Americas. 



Orders. Orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $76.0 million, an increase of $13.4 million, or 21%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $2.0 million, or 3%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 



The following table sets forth new orders booked by geographic region for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Orders in the Americas for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 9%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines. European orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 25%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. This increase in orders resulted mainly from increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, France and the United Kingdom, as well as increased customer demand for machine tool components and accessories manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, LCM. Asian Pacific orders for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased by 41%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a slight unfavorable currency impact of less than 1%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. This increase in Asian Pacific orders was due primarily to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in India and Southeast Asia, as well as increased customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China. 



Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $24.5 million, or 31% of sales, compared to $17.5 million, or 29% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 



 22  



Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were $15.2 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $12.4 million, or 20% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The year-over-year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was driven by an unfavorable currency impact of $0.1 million, when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, as well as increased expenses for global marketing and employee incentive compensation. 



Operating Income. Operating income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was $9.4 million compared to $5.1 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 



Other (Income) Expense, Net. Other (income) expense, net in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased by $0.6 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 



Income Taxes. We recorded income tax expense during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 of $2.5 million compared to $1.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. Our effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was 28%, compared to 26% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the third quarter principally resulted from a shift in geographic mix of income and loss among tax jurisdictions. 



Nine Months Ended July 31, 2018 Compared to Nine Months Ended July 31, 2017 



Sales and Service Fees. Sales and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $217.6 million, an increase of $49.9 million, or 30%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $11.1 million, or 7%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. 



Sales and Service Fees by Geographic Region 



The following table sets forth net sales and service fees by geographic region for the nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Sales in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 20%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, due primarily to improved U.S. market conditions and demand from U.S. customers for the Hurco and Milltronics product lines. The increase in sales was mainly attributable to an increased sales volume of vertical milling and lathe machines from the Hurco, Milltronics and Takumi product lines. European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 33%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 11%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in European sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy. Asian Pacific sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 40%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of 6%, when translating foreign sales to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The increase in Asian Pacific sales for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling and lathe machines in China and India. 



 23  



Sales and Service Fees by Product Category 



The following table sets forth net sales and service fees by product category for the nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



† Amounts shown do not include computer control systems and software sold as an integrated component of computerized machine 



systems. 



Exclusive of a 7% favorable currency impact, the year-over-year increase in sales of computerized machine tools, computer control systems and software, service parts and service fees for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was driven primarily by increased demand of vertical milling and lathe machines, aftermarket sales and service from all product lines and across all of our three geographic regions. 



Orders. Orders for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $232.8 million, an increase of $45.9 million, or 25%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and included a favorable currency impact of $12.3 million, or 7%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. 



The following table sets forth new orders booked by geographic region for the nine months of fiscal 2018 and 2017 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Orders in the Americas for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 7%, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase was largely attributable to increased customer demand for Hurco and Takumi vertical milling machines. For the nine months of fiscal 2018, European orders increased by 34%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 11%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in European orders in the nine months ended July 31, 2018 was driven predominantly by increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling and lathe machines in Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom, and increased demand for LCM machine tool components and accessories. Asian Pacific orders for the nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 27%, compared to the corresponding prior year period, and included a favorable currency impact of 5%, when translating foreign orders to U.S. dollars. The year-over-year increase in orders was mostly due to increased customer demand for Hurco vertical milling machines in China, India and Southeast Asia, partially offset by a reduction in customer demand for Takumi vertical milling machines in China. 



Gross Profit. Gross profit for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was $64.0 million, or 29% of sales, compared to $47.2 million, or 28% of sales, for the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in gross profit as a percentage of sales reflected the increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 



 24  



Operating Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months of fiscal 2018 were $41.4 million, or 19% of sales, compared to $35.3 million, or 21% of sales, in the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The year-over-year increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was driven by an unfavorable currency impact of $1.5 million, when translating foreign expenses to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, as well as increased expenses for global marketing and employee incentive compensation. 



Operating Income. Operating income for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was $22.5 million compared to $11.9 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. The increase in operating income year-over-year was driven primarily by increased volume of sales of Hurco machines, particularly in Europe, and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation compared to the corresponding prior year period. 



Other (Income) Expense, Net. Other (income) expense, net in the nine months of fiscal 2018 decreased by $0.7 million from the corresponding period in fiscal 2017 due primarily to net realized and unrealized losses from foreign currency fluctuations on payables and receivables, net of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. 



Income Taxes. We recorded income tax expense during the nine months of fiscal 2018 of $8.7 million compared to $3.4 million for the corresponding period in fiscal 2017. Our effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was 40%, compared to 29% in the corresponding prior year period. The year-over-year increase in the effective tax rate for the nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily attributable to one-time charges of $2.9 million related to the Tax Reform that was enacted on December 22, 2017. The impact of these one-time charges increased the effective tax rate by approximately 39% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Excluding the impact of these charges, earnings per diluted share would have been $0.43 higher than the earnings per diluted share we reported for the nine months of fiscal 2018.  



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  



At July 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $77.0 million, compared to $66.3 million at October 31, 2017. Approximately 64% of the $77.0 million of cash and cash equivalents is denominated in U.S. Dollars. The balance is attributable to our foreign operations, is held in the local currencies of our various foreign entities and is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds offshore impairs our ability to meet our domestic working capital needs. 



Working capital was $189.5 million at July 31, 2018, compared to $175.5 million at October 31, 2017. The increase in working capital was mostly driven by an increase in cash and inventories, partially offset by a reduction in accounts receivable and an increase in accounts payable. 



Capital expenditures of $4.6 million during the nine months of fiscal 2018 were primarily for capital improvements in existing facilities and software development costs. We funded these expenditures with cash on hand. 



At July 31, 2018, we had $1.5 million of borrowings outstanding under our China credit facility. We had no other debt or borrowings under any of our other credit facilities. At July 31, 2018, we had an aggregate of $19.5 million available for borrowing under our credit facilities and were in compliance with all covenants relating thereto. 



We believe our cash position and borrowing capacity under our credit facilities provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations over the next twelve months and allow us to remain committed to our strategic plan of product innovation and targeted penetration of developing markets. 



We continue to receive and review information on businesses and assets for potential acquisition, including intellectual property assets that are available for purchase. 



 25  



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 



Our accounting policies, which are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, require management to make significant estimates and assumptions using information available at the time the estimates are made. These estimates and assumptions significantly affect various reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. If our future experience differs materially from these estimates and assumptions, our results of operations and financial condition would be affected. There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies during the nine months of fiscal 2018. 



CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS 



There have been no material changes related to our contractual obligations and commitments from the information provided in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017. 



OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 



From time to time, our subsidiaries guarantee third party payment obligations in connection with the sale of machines to customers that use financing. We follow FASB guidance for accounting for guarantees (codified in ASC 460). As of July 31, 2018, we had 23 outstanding third party payment guarantees totaling approximately $0.6 million. The terms of these guarantees are consistent with the underlying customer financing terms. Upon shipment of a machine, the customer assumes the risk of ownership. The customer does not obtain title, however, until the customer has paid for the machine. A retention of title clause allows us to recover the machine if the customer defaults on the financing. We accrue liabilities under these guarantees at fair value, which amounts are insignificant. 



CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 



Certain statements made in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by the statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: 



 ·The cyclical nature of the machine tool industry; 



 ·Uncertain economic conditions, which may adversely affect overall demand, in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific markets; 



 ·The risks of our international operations; 



 ·The limited number of our manufacturing and supply chain sources; 



 ·The effects of changes in currency exchange rates; 



 ·Our dependence on new product development; 



 ·Possible obsolescence of our technology and the need to make technological advances; 



 ·Competition with larger companies that have greater financial resources; 



 ·Increases in the prices of raw materials, especially steel and iron products; 



 ·Acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and affect operating results; 



 ·Impairment of our assets; 



 ·Negative or unforeseen tax consequences; 



 ·The need and/or ability to protect our intellectual property assets; 



 ·Our ability to integrate acquisitions; 



 ·Uncertainty concerning our ability to use tax loss carryforwards; 



 26  



 ·Breaches of our network and system security measures; 



 ·The effect of the loss of members of senior management and key personnel; and 



 ·Governmental actions, initiatives and regulations, including import and export restrictions and tariffs and changes to tax laws. 



We discuss these and other important risks and uncertainties that may affect our future operations in Part I, Item 1A – Risk Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and may update that discussion in Part II, Item 1A – Risk Factors in this report or a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q we file hereafter. 



Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. While we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this report. 



 27  



 Item 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. 



 Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION  



During the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform non-audit, tax planning services. This disclosure is made pursuant to Section 10A9(i)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by Section 202 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 



 31  



 Item 6.EXHIBITS  



EXHIBIT INDEX 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 32  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



September 7, 2018 



 33
