 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



Overview  



We are one of the leading providers of worldwide manufacturing services and solutions. We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, digital home, healthcare, industrial and energy, mobility, networking and telecommunications, packaging, point of sale and printing industries. Our services enable our customers to reduce manufacturing costs, improve supply-chain management, reduce inventory obsolescence, lower transportation costs and reduce product fulfillment time. Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.  



We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net revenue, which in turn depends upon their growth, viability and financial stability. Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, our largest customers include Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., Nokia Networks, SolarEdge Technologies, Inc., Valeo S.A. and Zebra Technologies Corporation.  



We conduct our operations in facilities that are located worldwide, including but not limited to, China, Hungary, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and the United States. We derived a substantial majority, 91.2% and 91.8%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively. Our global manufacturing production sites allow customers to manufacture products simultaneously in the optimal locations for their products. Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.  



We have two reporting segments: Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”), which are organized based on the economic profiles of the services performed, including manufacturing capabilities, market strategy, margins, return on capital and risk profiles. Our EMS segment is focused around leveraging IT, supply chain design and engineering, technologies largely centered on core electronics, utilizing our large scale manufacturing infrastructure and our ability to serve a broad range of end markets. Our EMS segment is typically a lower-margin but high volume business that produces product at a quicker rate (i.e. cycle time) and in larger quantities and includes customers primarily in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, computing and storage, digital home, industrial and energy, networking and telecommunications, point of sale and printing industries. Our DMS segment is focused on providing engineering solutions, with an emphasis on material sciences and technologies. Our DMS segment is typically a higher-margin business and includes customers primarily in the consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies, defense and aerospace, healthcare, mobility and packaging industries.  



We monitor the current economic environment and its potential impact on both the customers we serve as well as our end-markets and closely manage our costs and capital resources so that we can respond appropriately as circumstances change.  



In September 2017, our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico received significant hurricane damage. During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, we recognized $(0.6) million and $10.7 million of expenses, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million and $21.4 million, respectively. As we continue to assess the impact to our operations, we may incur additional costs in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. We also expect the majority of these costs will ultimately be offset by insurance coverage.  



20  



Table of Contents 



Summary of Results  



The following table sets forth, for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, certain key operating results and other financial information (in thousands, except per share data):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Key Performance Indicators  



Management regularly reviews financial and non-financial performance indicators to assess the Company’s operating results. The following table sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, certain of management’s key financial performance indicators:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.  



 (2)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to increased sales activity during the quarter. During the three months ended February 28, 2018, the increase in days in inventory from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018 along with overall increased demand.  



 (3)  During the three months ended May 31, 2018, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to the timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter. During the three months ended November 30, 2017, the increase in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to higher materials purchases during the quarter due to increased demand in the mobility business as well as the timing of purchases and cash payments from purchases during the quarter.  



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect our reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions based upon historical experience and various other factors and circumstances. Management believes that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances; however, actual results may vary from these estimates and assumptions under different future circumstances. For further discussion of our significant accounting policies, refer to Note 1 — “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2017.  



Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



See Note 13 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.  



21  



Table of Contents 



Results of Operations  



The following table sets forth, for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, certain statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of net revenue:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Three Months and Nine Months Ended May 31, 2018 compared to the Three Months and Nine Months Ended May 31, 2017  



Net Revenue  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenue increased during the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017. Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 36% due to (i) a 29% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand, (ii) a 4% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business and (iii) a 3% increase in revenues due to a new customer and from existing customers in our consumer lifestyles and wearable technologies business. EMS segment revenues increased 12% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from a new customer and from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (ii) a 3% increase in revenues from existing customers in our capital equipment business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers in our digital home business, (iv) a 2% increase in revenues from existing customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (v) a 2% increase in revenues spread across various industries within the EMS segment.  



Net revenue increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017. Specifically, the DMS segment revenues increased 27% due to (i) a 25% increase in revenues from customers within our mobility business as a result of increased end user product demand and (ii) a 2% increase in revenues due to new business from existing customers in our healthcare business. EMS segment revenues increased 8% primarily due to (i) a 3% increase in revenues from customers within our capital equipment business, (ii) a 2% increase in revenues from customers within our digital home business, (iii) a 2% increase in revenues from a new customer and existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 1% increase in revenues from customers in our automotive and transportation business.  



22  



Table of Contents 



Generally, we assess revenue on a global customer basis regardless of whether the growth is associated with organic growth or as a result of an acquisition. Accordingly, we do not differentiate or separately report revenue increases generated by acquisitions as opposed to existing business. In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.  



The distribution of revenue across our segments has fluctuated, and will continue to fluctuate, as a result of numerous factors, including the following: fluctuations in customer demand as a result of recessionary and other conditions; efforts to diversify certain portions of our business; seasonality in our business; business growth from new and existing customers; specific product performance; and any potential termination, or substantial winding down, of significant customer relationships.  



The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, revenue by segment expressed as a percentage of net revenue:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, foreign source revenue expressed as a percentage of net revenue:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross Profit  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit increased during the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017 primarily due to the increase in net revenue.  



Gross profit increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017. Gross profit increased on an absolute basis primarily due to the increase in net revenue. Gross profit decreased as a percentage of revenue due to (i) increased materials costs in our mobility and packaging businesses due to the constrained components market and (ii) charges related to a distressed customer.  



Selling, General and Administrative  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support business growth and development.  



23  



Table of Contents 



Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, we recognized an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense due to the modification of certain performance-based restricted stock awards and a one-time cash-settled award while the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 included a $21.0 million reversal of stock-based compensation expense due to decreased expectations for the vesting of certain performance-based restricted stock awards. The remaining increase is primarily driven by an increase in salary and salary related expenses and other costs to support business growth and development.  



Research and Development  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Research and development expenses during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, respectively, remained relatively consistent as a percent of net revenue.  



Amortization of Intangibles  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Amortization of intangibles increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to amortization from intangible assets related to the True-Tech acquisition that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.  



Restructuring and Related Charges  



Following is a summary of the Company’s restructuring and related charges (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  Includes $4.6 million and $12.4 million recorded in the EMS segment, $5.8 million and $17.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $2.2 million and $2.5 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Includes $12.6 million and $23.8 million recorded in the EMS segment, $13.8 million and $65.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $3.1 million and $23.9 million of non-allocated charges for the nine ended May 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Except for asset write-off costs, all restructuring and related charges are cash costs.  



 (2)  Primarily relates to the 2017 Restructuring Plan.  



2017 Restructuring Plan  



On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness. This action includes headcount reductions across our selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).  



24  



Table of Contents 



Upon completion of the 2017 Restructuring Plan, we expect to recognize approximately $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs. We have incurred $180.2 million of costs-to-date as of May 31, 2018. The remaining costs for employee severance and benefits costs, asset write-off costs and other related costs are anticipated to be incurred through the first half of fiscal year 2019.  



The 2017 Restructuring Plan is expected to yield annualized cost savings beginning in fiscal year 2019 in the range of $70.0 million to $90.0 million. The annual cost savings are expected to be reflected as a reduction in cost of revenue as well as reduction of selling, general and administrative expense.  



See Note 11 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.  



Other Expense  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Other expense decreased for the three months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an other than temporary impairment on available for sale securities of $11.5 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in fees of $4.7 million associated with the asset-backed securitization programs and trade accounts receivable sale programs during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.  



Other expense increased for the nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in fees associated with the asset-backed securitization programs and the new trade accounts receivable sale programs. Additionally, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018 we incurred costs of $2.6 million in connection with a “make-whole” premium and related costs for the early redemption of the 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018. The increase was partially offset by an other then temporary impairment on available for sale securities during the third quarter of fiscal year 2017.  



Interest Income  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest income increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, due to increased investments.  



Interest Expense  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest expense increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2017, due to additional borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility and higher interest rates.  



Income Tax Expense  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



25  



Table of Contents 



The effective tax rate increased for the three months ended May 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to (i) increased income in jurisdictions with low tax rates and (ii) the overall loss for the three months ended May 31, 2017, despite having income in certain high tax-rate jurisdictions.  



The effective tax rate decreased for the nine months ended May 31, 2018 compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2017, primarily due to (i) increased income in jurisdictions with low tax rates and (ii) $16.1 million of tax benefits from the lapse of statute in a non-U.S. jurisdiction. This decrease was partially offset by $30.9 million of tax expense from the Tax Act impact driven primarily by the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax.  



During the second quarter of 2018, we made reasonable estimates of the impact related to certain aspects of the Tax Act and, in accordance with the SEC’s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, recorded a provisional income tax expense of approximately $30.9 million. As of May 31, 2018, we continue to believe this is a reasonable estimate related to Tax Reform based on analyses, interpretations, and guidance available at this time. As a result of the Tax Act, we are analyzing the indefinite reinvestment assertion and cash repatriation plan. We have made no adjustments to the financial statements in the current quarter with respect to our indefinite reinvestment assertion but may do so during the measurement period permitted by applicable SEC guidance. A change in assertion could result in a material deferred tax liability associated with foreign withholding taxes that would be incurred upon such future remittances of cash. The final impact of the Tax Act may differ from our estimate due to, among other items, additional regulatory guidance that may be issued, changes in interpretations and assumptions and finalization of calculations of the impact of the Tax Act, including the on-going analysis of U.S. tax attributes, re-measurement of the U.S. deferred tax attributes and the computation of earnings and profits and tax pools of our foreign subsidiaries. As we finalize the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act during the measurement period, we will reflect adjustments to the provisional amounts recorded and record additional tax effects in the periods such adjustments are identified.  



Non-GAAP (Core) Financial Measures  



The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations include certain non-GAAP financial measures as identified in the reconciliation below. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed herein do not have standard meaning and may vary from the non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies or how we may calculate those measures in other instances from time to time. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Also, our “core” financial measures should not be construed as an inference by us that our future results will be unaffected by those items that are excluded from our “core” financial measures.  



Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition costs and certain purchase accounting adjustments, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges. Among other uses, management uses non-GAAP “core” financial measures to make operating decisions, assess business performance and as a factor in determining certain employee performance when evaluating incentive compensation.  



We determine the tax effect of the items excluded from “core” earnings and “core” basic and diluted earnings per share based upon evaluation of the statutory tax treatment and the applicable tax rate of the jurisdiction in which the pre-tax items were incurred, and for which realization of the resulting tax benefit, if any, is expected. In certain jurisdictions where we do not expect to realize a tax benefit (due to existing tax incentives or a history of operating losses or other factors resulting in a valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets), a reduced or 0% tax rate is applied.  



We are reporting “core” operating income and “core” earnings to provide investors with an additional method for assessing operating income and earnings, by presenting what we believe are our “core” manufacturing operations. A significant portion (based on the respective values) of the items that are excluded for purposes of calculating “core” operating income and “core” earnings also impacted certain balance sheet assets, resulting in a portion of an asset being written off without a corresponding recovery of cash we may have previously spent with respect to the asset. In the case of restructuring and related charges, we may make associated cash payments in the future. In addition, although, for purposes of calculating “core” operating income and “core” earnings, we exclude stock-based compensation expense (which we anticipate continuing to incur in the future) because it is a non-cash expense, any associated stock issued would result in an increase in our outstanding shares of stock, which would result in the dilution of our stockholders’ ownership interest. We encourage you to consider these matters when evaluating the utility of these non-GAAP financial measures.  



26  



Table of Contents 



Included in the table below is a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures as provided in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  Charges relate to inventory and other assets charges for a distressed customer.  



 (2)  Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million and $21.4 million for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.  



 (3)  Includes $30.9 million which is comprised of the provisional one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax as required by the Tax Act and the provisional impact of the Tax Act to the re-measurement of U.S. deferred tax attributes for the nine months ended May 31, 2018.  



Acquisitions and Expansion  



As discussed in Note 12 – “Business Acquisitions” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we completed one acquisition during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 which was accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition.  



27  



Table of Contents 



Seasonality  



Production levels for a portion of the DMS segment are subject to seasonal influences. We may realize greater net revenue during our first fiscal quarter, which ends on November 30, due to higher demand for consumer related products during the holiday selling season. Therefore, quarterly results should not be relied upon as necessarily being indicative of results for the entire fiscal year.  



Liquidity and Capital Resources  



We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, share repurchases, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months. We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.  



Cash and Cash Equivalents  



As of May 31, 2018, we had approximately $677.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. As our growth remains predominantly outside of the United States, a significant portion of such cash and cash equivalents are held by our foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the Tax Act and after the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on our historically untaxed foreign earnings, the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries will no longer be subject to U.S. federal income tax consequences upon subsequent repatriation to the United States. As a result, most of our cash and cash equivalents as of May 31, 2018 could be repatriated to the United States without potential tax consequences.  



Notes Payable and Credit Facilities  



Following is summary of principal debt payments and debt issuance for our notes payable and credit facilities (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, we issued $500.0 million of publicly registered 3.950% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “3.950% Senior Notes”). The net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes, including to redeem $400.0 million of our outstanding 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018 and pay related costs and a “make-whole” premium.  



 (2)  On November 8, 2017, we entered into an amended and restated senior unsecured five-year credit agreement. The credit agreement provides for: (i) the Revolving Credit Facility in the initial amount of $1.8 billion, which may, subject to the lenders’ discretion, be increased up to $2.3 billion and (ii) a $500.0 million Term Loan Facility (collectively the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility expires on November 8, 2022. The Revolving Credit Facility is subject to two whole or partial one-year extensions, at the lenders’ discretion. Interest and fees on the Credit Facility advances are based on the Company’s non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt rating as determined by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings.  



During the nine months ended May 31, 2018, the interest rates on the Revolving Credit Facility borrowings ranged from 2.4% to 4.4% and the interest rates on the Term Loan Facility ranged from 2.6% to 3.3%.  



Additionally, our foreign subsidiaries have various additional credit facilities that finance their future growth and any corresponding working capital needs.  



28  



Table of Contents 



As of May 31, 2018, we had $1.9 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities.  



Currently, we have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.  



Our Senior Notes and our Credit Facility contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants. A violation of these covenants could negatively impact our liquidity by restricting our ability to borrow under the notes payable and credit facilities and potentially causing acceleration of amounts due under these notes payable and credit facilities. As of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our Senior Notes and Credit Facility. Refer to Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.  



Asset-Backed Securitization and Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  



Asset-Backed Securitization Programs  



We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable, at a discount, under our asset-backed securitization programs to special purpose entities, which in turn sell 100% of the receivables to: (i) conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions and (ii) an unaffiliated financial institution. Any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring is recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which is paid from available cash as payments on the receivables are collected.  



Following is a summary of our asset-backed securitization programs and key terms:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  Maximum amount available at any one time.  



 (2)  On November 9, 2017, the program was extended to October 20, 2020.  



 (3)  On April 19, 2018, the program was extended to September 28, 2018.  



In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, as of May 31, 2018, we sold $1.1 billion of eligible trade accounts receivable, which represents the face amount of total sold outstanding receivables at that date. In exchange, we received cash proceeds of $600.6 million and recorded a deferred purchase price receivable of $529.6 million. As of May 31, 2018, we had up to $0.1 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.  



Our asset-backed securitization programs contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants. As of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, we were in compliance with all covenants under our asset-backed securitization programs. Refer to Note 7 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.  



29  



Table of Contents 



Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  



Following is a summary of the seven trade accounts receivable sale programs with unaffiliated financial institutions. Under the programs we may elect to sell receivables and the unaffiliated financial institutions may elect to purchase, at a discount, on an ongoing basis:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  Maximum amount available at any one time.  



 (2)  Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.  



 (3)  On May 4, 2018, the program was extended to May 4, 2023.  



 (4)  Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior notice.  



 (5)  The program will be automatically extended through January 25, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.  



 (6)  Maximum amount was increased on April 24, 2018.  



During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, we sold $1.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.3 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively. As of May 31, 2018, we had up to $353.8 million in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.  



Capital Expenditures  



For fiscal year 2018, we anticipate our net capital expenditures, which do not include any amounts spent on acquisitions, will be approximately $700.0 million, principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments. The amount of actual capital expenditures may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, among other things.  



Cash Flows  



The following table sets forth selected consolidated cash flow information during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 was primarily due to non-cash expenses and higher accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by higher inventories, accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other current assets. The increase in accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities was primarily due to an increase in materials purchases due to increased demand in the mobility business and the timing of purchases and cash payments. The increase in inventories supports expected sales levels and also is due to increased demand and advance purchases in anticipation of a materials shortage. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the timing of sales and cash collections activity as well as higher sales levels. The increase in prepaid expense and other current assets is primarily due to an increase in value added tax receivables, partially offset by a decrease in deferred purchase price receivables from a decrease in receivables sold and the timing of cash collections.  



Net cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 consisted primarily of: (i) capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments and (ii) cash paid for the acquisition of True-Tech Corporation, which were partially offset by proceeds and advances from the sale of property, plant and equipment.  



30  



Table of Contents 



Net cash used in financing activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 was primarily due to: (i) payments for debt agreements including the 8.250% Senior Notes, (ii) the repurchase of our common stock, (iii) dividend payments and (iv) treasury stock minimum tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock. Net cash used in financing activities was partially offset by borrowings under debt agreements including the 3.950% Senior Notes.  



Contractual Obligations  



As of the date of this report, other than the borrowings on the 3.950% Senior Notes and payments on the 8.250% Senior Notes discussed in Note 6 – “Notes Payable, Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business since August 31, 2017 to our contractual obligations and commitments.  



Dividends and Share Repurchases  



We currently expect to continue to declare and pay regular quarterly dividends of an amount similar to our past declarations. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance.  



In July 2017, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock. The 2017 Share Repurchase Program expires on August 31, 2018. As of May 31, 2018, 11.5 million shares had been repurchased for $316.2 million and $133.8 million remains available under the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.  



In June 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock. The 2018 Share Repurchase Program expires August 31, 2019.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



The following table provides information relating to our repurchase of common stock during the three months ended May 31, 2018:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  The purchases include amounts that are attributable to shares surrendered to us by employees to satisfy, in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and the exercise of stock appreciation rights, their tax withholding obligations.  



 (2)  In July 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of our common stock as publicly announced in a press release issued on July 20, 2017. The share repurchase program expires on August 31, 2018.  



