PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



See Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1) for information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.



Item 1A. Risk Factors



In addition to the other information set forth in this report, before deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the “10-K Risk Factors”) as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2018. If any of these risks occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The 10-K Risk Factors are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. 



There have been no material changes from the 10-K Risk Factors, except for the risks described below to reflect that the potential impact of a recent U.S. Supreme Court case on the Company’s tax risks, that the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (“GDPR”) is now in effect, that California’s legislature recently enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act effective January 1, 2020 (“CCPA”) and other changes related to the Risk Factors which address these issues.



Changes in our tax rates, changes in tax treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities may adversely impact our financial results.



We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, including Ireland, where a number of our subsidiaries are organized. Our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory tax rates and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. As a result, our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. These changes may adversely impact our effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations.



The recently enacted U.S. federal tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“2017 Tax Act”) may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. tax code by, in part but not limited to, reducing the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on certain un-repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines and issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. As of December 31, 2017, we recorded a provisional income tax charge of $49.2 million for the transition tax on deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income. We also recorded a provisional income tax benefit of $33.3 million for the re-measurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities because of the federal corporate maximum tax rate reduction. The provisional amounts recorded are based on our current interpretation and understanding of the 2017 Tax Act, are judgmental and may change as we receive additional clarification and implementation guidance. We will continue to gather and evaluate the income tax impact of the 2017 Tax Act. Changes to these provisional amounts or any of our other estimates regarding taxes could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.



Additionally, the tax project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) on Base Erosion and Profit Sharing (“BEPS”) and other similar initiatives could adversely affect our worldwide effective tax rate. With the finalization of specific actions contained within the OECD’s BEPS study, many OECD countries have acknowledged their intention to implement the actions and update their local tax laws. The extent (if any) to which countries in which we operate adopt and implement these actions could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate, income tax expense, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.



-51-



We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under audit by the IRS for tax years 2012 through 2016 and the California Franchise Tax Board (“FTB”) for tax years 2012 and 2013. The FTB, however, has agreed to suspend its audit for 2012 and 2013 pending the outcome of the IRS audit for such tax years. We are also under audit or review by other state and foreign taxing authorities for various periods. Our future income tax returns are likely to become the subject of audits by these or other taxing authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. If our reserves are not sufficient to cover these contingencies, such inadequacy could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows.



In addition, due to the global nature of the internet, it is possible that various states or foreign countries might attempt to impose additional or new regulation on our business or levy additional or new sales, income or other taxes relating to our activities. Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in e-commerce. New or revised international, federal, state or local tax regulations or court decisions may subject us or our customers to additional sales, income and other taxes. For example, Congress is considering various approaches to legislation that would require companies engaged in e-commerce to collect sales taxes on internet revenue and a growing number of U.S. states and certain foreign jurisdictions have adopted or are considering proposals to impose obligations on remote sellers and online marketplaces to collect taxes on their behalf. Additionally, the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., No.17-494 reversed a longstanding precedent that remote sellers are not required to collect state and local sales taxes. We cannot predict the effect of these and other attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on e-commerce. The application of existing, new or revised taxes on our business, in particular, sales taxes, VAT and similar taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of selling products over the internet. The application of these taxes on our business could also create significant increases in internal costs necessary to capture data and collect and remit taxes. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results.



Moreover, we are currently under audit for indirect taxes in several states and municipalities. We currently have no material financial reserves established with respect to indirect taxes. If a material indirect tax liability associated with prior periods were to be recorded, it could materially affect our financial results for the period in which it is recorded.



Furthermore, much of our Digital Media e-commerce revenue comes from arrangements in which we are paid by retailers to promote their digital product and service offers on our sites. Certain states have implemented regulations that require retailers to collect and remit sales taxes on sales made to residents of such states if a publisher, such as us, that facilitated that sale is a resident of such state. Paid retailers in our marketplace that do not currently have sales tax nexus in any state that subsequently passes similar regulations and in which we have operations, employees or contractors now or in the future, may significantly alter the manner in which they pay us, cease paying us for sales we facilitate for that retailer in such state, or cease using our marketplace, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results.



Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected, or in the future should collect sales and use, telecommunications or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future tax, which could adversely affect our operating results.



We do not collect and remit sales and use, telecommunications, or similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable or legally required. Several states and other taxing jurisdictions have presented or threatened us with assessments, alleging that we are required to collect and remit such taxes there. The recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., No. 17-494 reversed existing constitutional precedent that remote sellers are not required to collect and remit such taxes. The Company is evaluating the impact of the ruling. The jurisdictions where we have sales may apply more rigorous enforcement efforts or take more aggressive positions in the future that could result in greater tax liability. In addition, in the future we may also decide to engage in activities that would require us to pay sales and use, telecommunications, or similar taxes in new jurisdictions. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.



-52-



We are subject to a variety of new and existing laws and regulations which could subject us to claims, judgments, monetary liabilities and other remedies, and to limitations on our business practices.



The application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to us relating to issues such as defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, promotions, billing, consumer protection, accessibility, content regulation, data privacy, and intellectual property ownership and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled. In addition, we will also be subject to any new laws and regulations directly applicable to our domestic and international activities. Further, the application of existing laws to us or our subsidiaries regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers including, for example, distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol or other regulated substances, adult content, tobacco, or firearms, as well as insurance and securities brokerage, and legal services, can be unclear. Internationally, we may also be subject to laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country. Our Digital and Cloud Services segments utilize contractors, freelancers and/or staff from third party outsourcers to provide content and other services. However, in the future, arrangements with such individuals may not be deemed appropriate by the relevant government authority, which could result in additional costs and expenses. We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to defend such litigation or to comply with these laws and regulations, as well as potential substantial penalties for any failure to comply. Compliance with these laws and regulations may also cause us to change or limit our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.



The use of consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, and the regulatory environment is unsettled and evolving. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing, and security of data that we receive from and about our users. Our privacy and cookie policies and practices concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data are posted on our websites.



A number of U.S. federal laws, including those referenced below, impact our business. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”) is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act (“CDA”) are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and the CDA in conducting our business. If these or other laws or judicial interpretations are changed to narrow their protections, or if international jurisdictions refuse to apply similar provisions in foreign lawsuits, we will be subject to greater risk of liability, our costs of compliance with these regulations or to defend litigation may increase, or our ability to operate certain lines of business may be limited. The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (“COPPA”) is intended to impose restrictions on the ability of online services to collect some types of information from children under the age of 13. In addition, the Providing Resources, Officers, and Technology to Eradicate Cyber Threats to Our Children Act of 2008 (“PROTECT Act”) requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances, as well as other federal, state or international laws and legislative efforts designed to protect children on the internet may impose additional requirements on us. U.S. export control laws and regulations impose requirements and restrictions on exports to certain nations and persons and on our business.



In certain instances, we may be subject to enhanced privacy obligations based on the type of information we store and process. While we believe we are in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines, forfeitures, and other adverse actions.



The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the “CAN-SPAM Act”), which allows for penalties that run into the millions of dollars, requires commercial emails to include identifying information from the sender and a mechanism for the receiver to opt out of receiving future emails. Several states have enacted additional, more restrictive and punitive laws regulating commercial email. Foreign legislation exists as well, including Canada’s Anti-Spam Legislation and the European laws that have been enacted pursuant to the GDPR and European Union Directive 2002/58/EC and its amendments. We use email as a significant means of communicating with our existing and potential users. We believe that our email practices comply with the requirements of the CAN-SPAM Act, state laws, and applicable foreign legislation. If we were ever found to be in violation of these laws and regulations, or any other laws or regulations, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.



-53-



Many third-parties are examining whether the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) concept of public accommodation also extends to websites and to mobile applications. Generally, some plaintiffs have argued that websites and mobile applications are places of public accommodation under Title III of the ADA and, as such, must be equipped so that individuals with disabilities can navigate and make use of subject websites and mobile applications. The issue is currently under litigation and there is a split in the federal court of appeals circuits as to what the ADA requires. Certain appellate circuits have found that websites standing alone are subject to the ADA and therefore must be accessible to people with disabilities. Other circuits, including the Ninth Circuit, which has appellate jurisdiction over federal district courts in California and is where our company is headquartered, have found that in order for websites to be places of public accommodation, and therefore subject to the ADA there must be both a nexus between the website and the goods and services the website provides as well as a physical brick and mortar location for consumers. We cannot predict how the ADA will ultimately be interpreted as applied to websites and mobile applications.



We believe we are in compliance with relevant law. If the law changes or if certain courts with appellate jurisdiction outside of California attempt to exercise jurisdiction over us and find that our website and mobile applications must comply with the ADA, then any adjustments or requirements to implement any changes prescribed by the ADA could result in increased costs to our business, we may become subject to injunctive relief, plaintiffs may be able to recover attorneys’ fees, and it is possible that, while the ADA does not provide for monetary damages, we become subject to such damages through state consumer protection or other laws. It is possible that these potential liabilities could cause a material adverse effect on our operations and harm our business reputation.



Native advertising is an increasing part of our Digital Media segment’s online advertising revenue. On December 22, 2015, the FTC issued Guidelines and an Enforcement Policy Statement on native advertising, described by the FTC as, in part, ads which often “resemble the design, style, and functionality of the media in which they are disseminated.” The Company believes it is compliant with the requirements of these guidelines on our current practices and offerings. However, we will continue to monitor what effect this guideline and other related government regulations, and how the FTC enforces same could have on our native advertising and branded content business. In addition, the timing and extent of any enforcement by the FTC with regard to the native advertising practices by the Company, or others, could reduce the revenue we generate from this line of business.



As of May 25, 2018, certain data transfers from and between the European Union (“EU”) are subject to the GDPR. The GDPR prohibits data transfers from the EU to other countries outside of the EU, including the U.S., without appropriate security safeguards and practices in place. Previously, for certain data transfers from and between the EU and the U.S., j2 Global, like many other companies, had relied on what is referred to as the “EU-U.S. Safe Harbor,” in order to comply with privacy obligations imposed by EU countries. The European Court of Justice invalidated the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor. Although U.S. and EU policymakers approved a new framework known as “Privacy Shield” that would allow companies like us to continue to rely on some form of a safe harbor for the transfer of certain data from the EU to the U.S., the Privacy Shield may not be adequate for all data transfers between the EU and U.S. It is also unclear whether the United Kingdom (“UK”) will offer a similar program to Privacy Shield if the UK leaves the EU. Additionally, other countries that relied on the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor that were not part of the EU have also found that data transfers to the U.S. are no longer valid based on the European Court of Justice ruling. We cannot predict how or if this issue will be resolved nor can we evaluate any potential liability at this time.



The Company has put into place various alternative frameworks and grounds on which to rely in order to be in compliance with relevant law for the transfer of data from overseas locations to the U.S. including reviewing Company’s data collection process, procedures and putting into place Data Processing Agreements with vendors, partners and other third parties. Some independent data regulators have adopted the position that other forms of compliance are also invalid though the legal grounds for these findings remain unclear at this time. We cannot predict at this time whether the alternative grounds that j2 Global continues to implement will be found to be consistent with relevant laws nor can we evaluate what, if any, potential liability may be at this time.



On June 28, 2018, the California legislature enacted the CCPA, which imposes numerous regulations related to the processing of personal data of California consumers. The Company is assessing the impact of this law on its business and operations. 



Further, failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies, applicable requirements, or industry self-regulatory principles related to the collection, use, sharing, or security of personal information, or other privacy, data-retention or data­ protection matters could result in a loss of user confidence in us, damage to our brands, and ultimately in a loss of users and advertising partners, which could adversely affect our business. Changes in these or any other laws and regulations or the interpretation of them could increase our future compliance costs, limit the amount and type of data we can collect, transfer, share, or sell, make our products and services less attractive to our users, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. Further, any failure on our part to comply with any relevant laws or regulations may subject us to significant civil or criminal liabilities.



-54-



The GDPR imposes significant compliance costs and exposes the Company to substantial risks.



The EU has traditionally imposed more strict obligations under data privacy laws and regulations. Individual EU member countries have had discretion with respect to their interpretation and implementation of EU data privacy laws, resulting in a variation of privacy standards from country to country. The GDPR harmonizes EU data privacy laws and contains significant obligations and requirements that have resulted in a greater compliance burden with respect to our operations and data use in Europe, which will continue to increase our costs. Additionally, government authorities will have more power to enforce compliance and impose substantial penalties for any failure to comply. In addition, individuals have the right to compensation under the GDPR. In the event the Company fails to maintain compliance, the Company could be exposed to material damages, costs and/or fines if an EU government authority or EU resident commenced an action. Failure to comply or maintain compliance could cause considerable harm to us and our reputation (including requiring notification to customers, regulators, and/or the media), cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, and deter current and potential customers from using our services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.



Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



(a)Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities



 None.



(b)Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Effective February 15, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 19, 2019. In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program. During the six month period ended June 30, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at June 30, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).



The following table details the repurchases that were made under and outside the 2012 Program during the three months ended June 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) All shares purchased were surrendered to the Company to pay the exercise price and/or to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee stock options and/or the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees. 



-55-



Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities



None.



Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures



Not Applicable.



Item 5.Other Information



None.



Item 6.Exhibits



31.1Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



31.2Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



32.1Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



32.2Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.



101The following financial information from j2 Global, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, (ii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, (iii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, (iv) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and (v) the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



-56-



