Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



The following discussion of the market risks we face contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof. J2 Global undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review the risk factors described in this document and in the other documents incorporated by reference herein, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 as well as in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed or to be filed by us in 2019.



Interest Rate Risk



Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and borrowings under our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates. The primary objectives of our investment activities are to preserve our principal while at the same time maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. To achieve these objectives, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and investments in a mix of instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in our investment policy or otherwise approved by the Board of Directors. Our cash and cash equivalents are not subject to significant interest rate risk due to the short maturities of these instruments. As of June 30, 2019, the carrying value of our cash and cash equivalents approximated fair value. Our return on these investments is subject to interest rate fluctuations.



As of June 30, 2019, we had investments in debt securities with effective maturities greater than one year of approximately $22.1 million. As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalent investments primarily in money market funds with maturities of 90 days or less of $155.5 million and $209.5 million, respectively. 



On January 7, 2019, J2 Cloud Services, LLC entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with certain lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively, the “Lenders”) and MUFG Union Bank, N.A., as sole lead arranger and as administrative agent for the Lenders (the “Agent”). Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders have provided J2 Cloud Services with a credit facility of $100.0 million (the “Credit Facility”) with an option to request an increase of up to $50.0 million. On July 1, 2019, the Company increased its Credit Facility to $150.0 million (see Note 17 - Subsequent Events of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). As of June 30, 2019, the Company had drawn $100.0 million on the Credit Facility.



At J2 Cloud’s option, amounts borrowed under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at either (i) a base rate equal to the greatest of (x) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1% per annum, (y) the rate of interest per annum most recently announced by the Agent as its U.S. Dollar “Reference Rate” and (z) one month LIBOR plus 1.00% or (ii) a rate per annum equal to LIBOR divided by 1.00 minus the LIBOR Reserve Requirements (as defined in the Credit Agreement), in each case, plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin relating to any base rate loan will range from 0.50% to 1.50% and the applicable margin relating to any LIBOR loan will range from 1.50% to 2.50%, in each case, depending on the total leverage ratio of J2 Cloud. The final maturity of the Credit Facility will occur on January 7, 2024. J2 Cloud is permitted to make voluntary prepayments of the Credit Facility at any time without payment of a premium or penalty.



If the LIBOR-based interest rates or Federal Funds Effective Rate would have increased by 100 basis points, annual interest expense would have increased by $1.0 million as it relates to our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates.



We cannot ensure that future interest rate movements will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To date, we have not entered into interest rate hedging transactions to control or minimize certain of these risks.



Foreign Currency Risk



We conduct business in certain foreign markets, primarily in Canada, Australia and the European Union. Our principal exposure to foreign currency risk relates to investment and inter-company debt in foreign subsidiaries that transact business in functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar, the Euro, the Hong Kong Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the New Zealand Dollar, the Norwegian Kroner and the British Pound Sterling. If we are unable to settle our short-term inter-company debts in a timely manner, we remain exposed to foreign currency fluctuations. 



-55-



As we expand our international presence, we become further exposed to foreign currency risk by entering new markets with additional foreign currencies. The economic impact of currency exchange rate movements is often linked to variability in real growth, inflation, interest rates, governmental actions and other factors. These changes, if material, could cause us to adjust our financing and operating strategies.



As currency exchange rates change, translation of the income statements of the international businesses into U.S. Dollars affects year-over-year comparability of operating results, the impact of which is immaterial to the comparisons set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



Historically, we have not hedged translation risks because cash flows from international operations were generally reinvested locally; however, we may do so in the future. Our objective in managing foreign exchange risk is to minimize the potential exposure to changes that exchange rates might have on earnings, cash flows and financial position.



Foreign exchange (gains) losses for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $(0.3) million and $0.2 million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $1.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. The decrease in losses to our earnings in the current period were attributable to decreased inter-company balances between periods in foreign subsidiaries that were in functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Foreign exchange losses for the six months ended June 30, 2019 remained consistent with the prior comparable period.



Cumulative translation adjustments, net of tax, included in other comprehensive income for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $(1.2) million and $(14.6) million, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 were $(0.7) million and $(8.3) million, respectively.



We currently do not have derivative financial instruments for hedging, speculative or trading purposes and therefore are not subject to such hedging risk. However, we may in the future engage in hedging transactions to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.



