Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Forward-Looking Information



In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report. These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “hopes” or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to those discussed below, the risk factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A - “Risk Factors” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (if any) and in Part I, Item 1A - “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (together, the “Risk Factors”), and the factors discussed in the section in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review the Risk Factors and the risk factors set forth in other documents we file from time to time with the SEC.



Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, our ability and intention to:



◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels and credit and debit card payment declines;



◦Maintain and increase our Cloud Services customer base and average revenue per user;



◦Generate sufficient cash flow to make interest and debt payments and reinvest in our business, and pursue desired activities and businesses plans while satisfying restrictive covenants relating to debt obligations;



◦Acquire businesses on acceptable terms and successfully integrate and realize anticipated synergies from such acquisitions;



◦Continue to expand our businesses and operations internationally in the wake of numerous risks, including adverse currency fluctuations, difficulty in staffing and managing international operations, higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues or the implementation of adverse regulations;



◦Maintain our financial position, operating results and cash flows in the event that we incur new or unanticipated costs or tax liabilities, including those relating to federal and state income tax and indirect taxes, such as sales, value-added and telecommunication taxes;



◦Accurately estimate the assumptions underlying our effective worldwide tax rate;



◦Continue to pay a comparable cash dividend on a quarterly basis;



◦Maintain favorable relationships with critical third-party vendors whose financial condition will not negatively impact the services they provide;



◦Create compelling digital media content causing increased traffic and advertising levels; additional advertisers or an increase in advertising spend; and effectively target digital media advertisements to desired audiences;



◦Manage certain risks inherent to our business, such as costs associated with fraudulent activity, system failure or security breach; effectively maintaining and managing our billing systems; time and resources required to manage our legal proceedings; liability for legal and other claims; or adhering to our internal controls and procedures;



◦Compete with other similar providers with regard to price, service and functionality;



◦Cost-effectively procure, retain and deploy large quantities of telephone numbers in desired locations in the United States and abroad;



◦Achieve business and financial objectives in light of burdensome domestic and international telecommunications, internet or other regulations including data privacy, security and retention;



◦Successfully manage our growth, including but not limited to our operational and personnel-related resources, and integration of newly acquired businesses;



-36-



◦Successfully adapt to technological changes and diversify services and related revenues at acceptable levels of financial return;



◦Successfully develop and protect our intellectual property, both domestically and internationally, including our brands, patents, trademarks and domain names, and avoid infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and



◦Recruit and retain key personnel.



In addition, our financial results could be materially impacted by risks associated with new accounting pronouncements.



Overview



j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services. Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties. In addition, the Cloud Services segment includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products. Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.



Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees. Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.



In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets. 



Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability. Our Cloud Services segment is driven primarily by subscription revenues that are relatively higher margin, stable and predictable from quarter to quarter with some seasonal weakness in the fourth quarter. The Cloud Services segment also includes the results of our IP licensing business, which can vary dramatically in both revenues and profitability from period to period. Our Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter. We continue to pursue additional acquisitions, which may include companies operating under business models that differ from those we operate under today. Such acquisitions could impact our consolidated profit margins and the variability of our revenues.



j2 Global was incorporated in 2014 as a Delaware corporation through the creation of a new holding company structure, and our Cloud Services segment, operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (formerly j2 Cloud Services, Inc.), and its subsidiaries, was founded in 1995. We manage our operations through two business segments: Cloud Services and Digital Media. Information regarding revenue and operating income attributable to each of our reportable segments is included within Note 14 - Segment Information of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



-37-



Cloud Services Segment Performance Metrics



The following table sets forth certain key operating metrics for our Cloud Services segment as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands, except for percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Quarterly ARPU is calculated using our standard convention of applying the average of the quarter’s beginning and ending base to the total revenue for the quarter. We believe ARPU provides investors an understanding of the average monthly revenues we recognize associated with each Cloud Services customer. As ARPU varies based on fixed subscription fee and variable usage components, we believe it can serve as a measure by which investors can evaluate trends in the types of services, levels of services and the usage levels of those services across our Cloud Services customer base.



(2) Cloud Services customers are defined as paying direct inward dialing numbers for fax and voice services, and direct and resellers’ accounts for other services.



(3) Cancel Rate is defined as cancels of small and medium business and individual Cloud Services customers with greater than four months of continuous service (continuous service includes Cloud Services customers administratively canceled and reactivated within the same calendar month), and enterprise Cloud Services customers beginning with their first day of service. Calculated monthly and expressed as an average over the three months of the quarter.



Digital Media Segment Performance Metrics



The following table sets forth certain key operating metrics for our Digital Media segment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sources: Google Analytics and Partner Platforms



-38-



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



In the ordinary course of business, we have made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of results of operations and financial condition in the preparation of our financial statements. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates, except for changes relating to our adoption of authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition.



As of January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective method. In addition, we presented the cumulative effect of the changes made to our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2018 and the impact of adopting Topic 606 on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 



See Note 3 - Revenues to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our revenue recognition policy as of January 1, 2018.



Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018



Cloud Services Segment



Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits as included in the results of operations below in our Cloud Services segment to be stable for the foreseeable future (excluding the impact of acquisitions). The main focus of our Cloud Services offerings is to reduce or eliminate costs, increase sales and enhance productivity, mobility, business continuity and security of our customers as the technologies and devices they use evolve over time. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to enhance our existing offerings and offer new services to continue to satisfy the evolving needs of our customers. Through our IP licensing operations, which are included in the Cloud Services segment, we seek to make our IP available for license to third parties, and we expect to continue to attempt to obtain additional IP through a combination of acquisitions and internal development in an effort to increase available licensing opportunities and related revenues. 



We expect acquisitions to remain an important component of our strategy and use of capital in this segment; however, we cannot predict whether our current pace of acquisitions will remain the same within this segment. In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods. Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this segment but with different business models may impact the segment’s overall profit margins. Also, as IP licensing often involves litigation, the timing of licensing transactions is unpredictable and can and does vary significantly from period to period. This variability can cause the overall segment’s financial results to materially vary from period to period.



Digital Media Segment



Assuming a stable or improving economic environment, and subject to our risk factors, we expect the revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment to improve over the next several quarters as we integrate our recent acquisitions and over the longer term as advertising transactions continue to shift from offline to online. The main focus of our advertising programs is to provide relevant and useful advertising to visitors to our websites and those included within our advertising networks, reflecting our commitment to constantly improve their overall web experience. As a result, we expect to continue to take steps to improve the relevance of the ads displayed on our websites and those included within our advertising networks.



The operating margin we realize on revenues generated from ads placed on our websites is significantly higher than the operating margin we realize from revenues generated from those placed on third-party websites. Growth in advertising revenues from our websites has generally exceeded that from third-party websites. This trend has had a positive impact on our operating margins, and we expect that this will continue for the foreseeable future. However, the trend in advertising spend is shifting to mobile devices and other newer advertising formats which generally experience lower margins than those from desktop computers and tablets. We expect this trend to continue to put pressure on our margins.



We expect acquisitions to remain an important component of our strategy and use of capital in this segment; however, we cannot predict whether our current pace of acquisitions will remain the same within this segment. In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods. Moreover, future acquisitions of businesses within this segment but with different business models may impact the segment’s overall profit margins.



-39-



j2 Global Consolidated



We anticipate that the stable revenue trend in our Cloud Services segment combined with the improving revenue and profits in our Digital Media segment will result in overall improved revenue and profits for j2 Global on a consolidated basis, excluding the impact of any future acquisitions which can vary dramatically from period to period. 



We expect operating profit as a percentage of revenues to generally decrease in the future primarily due to the fact that revenue with respect to our Digital Media segment (i) is increasing as a percentage of our revenue on a consolidated basis and (ii) has historically operated at a lower operating margin.



Revenues



(in thousands, except percentages)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our revenues consist of revenues from our Cloud Services segment and from our Digital Media segment. Cloud Services revenues primarily consist of revenues from “fixed” customer subscription revenues and “variable” revenues generated from actual usage of our services. We also generate Cloud Services revenues from IP licensing. Digital Media revenues primarily consist of advertising revenues, fees paid for generating business leads, and licensing and sale of editorial content and trademarks.



Our revenues in 2018 have increased over the comparable three month period of 2017 primarily due to a combination of acquisitions and organic growth within both the Digital Media and Cloud Services segments.



Cost of Revenues



(in thousands, except percentages)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cost of revenues is primarily comprised of costs associated with data and voice transmission, numbers, editorial and production costs, network operations, customer service, online processing fees and equipment depreciation. The increase in cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in costs associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2017 that resulted in additional editorial and production, network operations, and online processing fees.



Operating Expenses



Sales and Marketing.



(in thousands, except percentages)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our sales and marketing costs consist primarily of internet-based advertising, sales and marketing, personnel costs and other business development-related expenses. Our internet-based advertising relationships consist primarily of fixed cost and performance-based (cost-per-impression, cost-per-click and cost-per-acquisition) advertising relationships with an array of online 



-40-



service providers. Advertising cost for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $38.5 million (primarily consists of $25.3 million of third-party advertising costs and $10.6 million of personnel costs) compared to 2017 of $31.5 million (primarily consists of $20.7 million third-party advertising costs and $10.0 million personnel costs). The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to increased personnel costs and advertising associated with the acquisition of businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2017 within the Digital Media segment.



Research, Development and Engineering.



(in thousands, except percentages)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our research, development and engineering costs consist primarily of personnel-related expenses. The increase in research, development and engineering costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to additional personnel costs associated with acquisitions within the Cloud Services and Digital Media segments and additional expenses for professional services.



General and Administrative.



(in thousands, except percentages)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our general and administrative costs consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, depreciation and amortization, changes in the fair value associated with contingent consideration, share-based compensation expense, bad debt expense, professional fees, severance and insurance costs. The increase in general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the prior comparable period was primarily due to additional amortization of intangible assets, depreciation of fixed assets, personnel costs relating to businesses acquired in and subsequent to the first quarter 2017, severance costs associated with acquisitions, fair value adjustments to contingent consideration and professional fees.



Share-Based Compensation



The following table represents share-based compensation expense included in cost of revenues and operating expenses in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-41-



Non-Operating Income and Expenses



Interest expense, net. Our interest expense, net is generated primarily from interest expense due to outstanding debt, partially offset by interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments. Interest expense, net was $15.8 million and $12.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Interest expense, net increased over the prior comparable period primarily due to increased interest expense associated with the issuance of the $650 million 6.0% Senior Notes; partially offset by increased interest income on cash, cash equivalents and investments.



Other expense, net. Our other expense, net is generated primarily from miscellaneous items, gain or losses on currency exchange and gains or losses on investments. Other expense, net was $4.5 million and $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Other expense, net increased due to a loss on equity securities of $3.7 million and increased losses on currency exchange over the prior comparable period.



Income Taxes



Our effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax regulations (including those related to transfer pricing) and different tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The tax bases of our assets and liabilities reflect our best estimate of the tax benefits and costs we expect to realize. When necessary, we establish valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized. 



The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Tax Act”) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act includes a number of changes to the Internal Revenue Code including a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative undistributed foreign earnings and a permanent reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective on January 1, 2018. The 2017 Tax Act also created a new requirement that certain income (i.e.,Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”)) earned by foreign subsidiaries must be included currently in the gross income of the U.S. shareholder. Consistent with guidance issued by SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”), the Company recorded provisional estimates for the income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act in December 2017. In addition, SAB 118 provides for a measurement period of one year from the enactment date to finalize the accounting for effects of the 2017 Tax Act. We continue to analyze the impacts of the 2017 Tax Act and refine calculations. 



We record deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the enacted tax rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. Therefore, any U.S. related deferred taxes were re-measured from 35% down to 21% based on the recorded balances as of December 31, 2017. The analysis included a preliminary assessment on the deductibility of certain amounts for which deferred tax assets may have been recorded. As of December 31, 2017, we recorded an estimated tax benefit of approximately $33.3 million. As of March 31, 2018, we did not adjust the provisional estimate related to re-measurement of deferred tax balances. 



We were required to calculate a one-time transition tax based on its total post-1986 foreign earnings and profits (“E&P”) that it previously deferred from U.S. income taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a provisional estimate of the transition tax of $49.2 million payable over an eight year period. As of March 31, 2018, we have not adjusted the provisional estimate of the transition tax. 



We were unable to determine a reasonable estimate of the remaining tax liability, if any, under the 2017 Tax Act for its remaining outside basis differences or evaluate how the 2017 Tax Act will affect our existing accounting position to indefinitely reinvest unremitted foreign earnings. Therefore, the Company did not include a provisional amount for this item in its financial statements for fiscal 2017. As of March 31, 2018, we continue to review the amount of tax due, if any, on differences in tax basis and the accounting position related to indefinite reinvestment of foreign earnings. 



 We are subject to a territorial tax system under the 2017 Tax Act. We are required to provide for tax on GILTI earned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. Additionally, we are required to make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense. As of March 31, 2018, we continue our evaluation of the effects of the GILTI provisions as guidance and interpretations continue to emerge. Therefore, we have not determined an accounting policy on the GILTI provisions. However, the standard requires that we reflect the impact of the GILTI provisions as a period expense until the accounting policy is finalized. Therefore, we have included the provisional estimate of GILTI related to current-year operations in its estimated annual effective tax rate only and will be updating the impact and accounting policy as the analysis related to the GILTI provisions is completed. 



Provision for income taxes amounted to $7.0 million and $9.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our effective tax rate was 27.1% and 26.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.



-42-



The increase in our effective income tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily attributable to the following: 



1.a decrease in tax benefit during 2018 related to revaluing deferred tax assets and liabilities; and



2.an increase in tax expense during 2018 due to tax law changes requiring certain income earned by foreign subsidiaries to be included in the income of the U.S. shareholder; partially offset by



3.a decrease during 2018 from the reduction in the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective on January 1, 2018.



Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Certain of these tax positions have in the past been, and are currently being, challenged, and this may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate if our tax reserves are insufficient.



Segment Results



Our business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Our reportable business segments are: (i) Cloud Services; and (ii) Digital Media. 



We evaluate the performance of our operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating income. We account for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes and certain other assets. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at our consolidated financial results.



Cloud Services



The following segment results are presented for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Segment net sales of $149.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $7.9 million, or 5.6%, from the prior comparable period due to business acquisitions.



Segment gross profit of $118.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $6.0 million, or 5.4%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.



Segment operating expenses of $61.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $5.4 million, or 9.7%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to (a) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period (b) increased bad debt expense; and (c) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs. As a result of these factors, segment operating income of $56.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $0.6 million, or 1.0%, from the prior comparable period. Our Cloud Services segment consists of several services which have similar economic characteristics, including the nature of the services and their production processes, the type of customers, as well as the methods used to distribute these services.



-43-



Digital Media



 The following segment results are presented for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Segment net sales of $131.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $18.0 million, or 15.9%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.



Segment gross profit of $114.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $12.6 million, or 12.4%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to business acquisitions.



Segment operating expenses of $117.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $12.5 million, or 11.9%, from the prior comparable period primarily due to (a) additional expense associated with businesses acquired in and subsequent to the prior comparable period comprised primarily of salary and related costs, marketing costs, changes in fair value of contingent consideration and amortization of intangible assets; and (b) an allocation of certain shared Corporate operating costs. As a result of these factors, segment operating (loss) income of $(3.4) million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased $0.1 million, or 2.3%, from the prior comparable period.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments



At March 31, 2018, we had cash and investments of $396.3 million compared to $408.7 million at December 31, 2017. The decrease in cash and investments resulted primarily from business acquisitions, dividends and interest paid, and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by cash from operations. At March 31, 2018, cash and investments consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $331.4 million. We retain a substantial portion of our cash and investments in foreign jurisdictions for future reinvestment. As of March 31, 2018, cash and investments held within domestic and foreign jurisdictions were $146.1 million and $250.2 million, respectively. If we were to repatriate funds held within foreign jurisdictions, we would incur U.S. income tax on the repatriated amount at the federal statutory rate of 35% and the state statutory rate where applicable, net of a credit for foreign taxes paid on such amounts.



On February 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4050 per share of common stock payable on March 9, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2018. On May 3, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4150 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on June 1, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 18, 2018. Future dividends are subject to Board approval.



On September 25, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the Company’s entry into a commitment to invest $200 million in an investment fund (the “Fund”) over several years at a fairly ratable rate. The manager, OCV Management, LLC (“OCV”), and general partner of the Fund are entities with respect to which Richard S. Ressler, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Company, is indirectly the majority equity holder. As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner will be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%. The Fund has a six year investment period, subject to certain exceptions. The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.



-44-



During the first quarter 2018, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV for approximately $13.4 million, inclusive of certain management fees.



We currently anticipate that our existing cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditure, stock repurchases and cash dividends for at least the next 12 months.



Cash Flows



Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations, together with cash and cash equivalents. Net cash provided by operating activities was $103.9 million and $51.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our operating cash flows resulted primarily from cash received from our customers offset by cash payments we made to third parties for their services, employee compensation and interest payments associated with our debt. The increase in our net cash provided by operating activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to a decrease in accounts receivable and increased depreciation and amortization; partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $331.8 million and $350.9 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.



Net cash used in investing activities was $(107.0) million and $(13.4) million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to business acquisitions, purchase of investments, and capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash used in investing activities was primarily attributable to capital expenditures associated with the purchase of property and equipment, business acquisitions and the purchase of intangible assets. The increase in our net cash used in investing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily due to additional business acquisitions.



Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities was $(20.1) million and $25.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to dividends paid, repurchases of stock and business acquisitions. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, net cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to proceeds from a line of credit and exercise of stock options; partially offset by dividends paid, business acquisitions, and repurchases of stock. The change in net cash used in financing activities in 2018 compared to 2017 was primarily attributable to the proceeds from the line of credit in the prior comparable period.



Stock Repurchase Program



In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 19, 2019. During the three month period ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program. Cumulatively at March 31, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).



-45-



Contractual Obligations and Commitments



The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(a)These amounts represent principal on long-term debt. 



(b)These amounts represent interest on long-term debt.



(c)These amounts represent undiscounted future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases.



(d)These amounts represent undiscounted future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable capital leases.



(e)These amounts represent service commitments to various telecommunication providers.



(f)These amounts represent the holdback amounts in connection with certain business acquisitions.



(g)These amounts represent commitments related to the transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings.



(h)These amounts represent health and dental insurance plans in connection to self-insurance.



(i)These amounts represent certain consulting and Board of Directors fee arrangements, software license commitments and others.



As of March 31, 2018, our liability for uncertain tax positions was $53.3 million. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with such authorities. 



We have not presented contingent consideration associated with acquisitions in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and the timing of cash settlements.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We are not party to any material off-balance sheet arrangements.



-46-



