Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which we refer to as the Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Juniper Networks, Inc., which we refer to as “we,” “us,” "Juniper," or the “Company,” that are based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about our business, economic and market outlook, our results of operations, the industry in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “would,” “will,” “could,” “may,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain, and these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part II and elsewhere, and in other reports we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. While forward-looking statements are based on reasonable expectations of our management at the time that they are made, you should not rely on them. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.



The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP. In the course of operating our business, we routinely make decisions as to the timing of the payment of invoices, the collection of receivables, the manufacturing and shipment of products, the fulfillment of orders, the purchase of supplies, and the building of inventory and spare parts, among other matters. In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives. Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.



To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview. These sections should be read in conjunction with the more detailed discussion and analysis of our condensed consolidated financial condition and results of operations in this Item 2, our “Risk Factors” section included in Item 1A of Part II of this Report, and our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, as well as our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes included in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, or Form 10-K.



Business and Market Environment



Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility and improved operating efficiency through automation. 



Our products are sold in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA; and Asia Pacific, or APAC. We sell our high-performance network products and service offerings across routing, switching, and security technologies. In addition to our products, we offer our customers services, including maintenance and support, professional services, and education and training programs. Our products and services address high-performance network requirements for our customers within our verticals: Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise who view their network as critical to their success. We believe our silicon, systems, and software represent innovations that transform the economics and experience of networking, helping our customers achieve superior performance, greater choice, and flexibility, while reducing overall total cost of ownership.



Further, our intent is to expand our software business by introducing new software solutions to our product portfolio that simplify the operation of networks, and allow our customers across our key verticals flexibility in consumption and deployment. We believe our software revenues as a percentage of total revenues will increase over time as we introduce new software product offerings and business models designed to better monetize the value of our software offerings. 



We believe the network needs for our customers in our Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and are adopting cloud architectures for their infrastructure and service delivery, such as large public and private data centers and service provider edge data centers, for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency. 



 31

We remain confident in our strategy and we are executing against our innovation roadmap, as each of our industry verticals transitions to cloud architectures. We believe our understanding of high-performance networking technology and cloud architecture, and our strategy, position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks.



In the first quarter of 2019, we continued to execute on our product and solutions strategy and announced new metro, edge and core innovations to accelerate service providers’ 5G transformation. Our Metro Fabric line expansion includes one and three rack unit ACX700 Universal Metro Routers. We announced a new edge MPC11E line card in the MX2000 Series 5G Universal Routing Platform, delivering an increase in line card and system capacity using our Penta Silicon chip. We also announced our new Triton Silicon enabling end-to-end secure connectivity at scale with 400 gigabit-Ethernet, or GbE, native Media Access Control Security that will be used in the PTX10008 and PTX10016 Universal Chassis. These new solutions will help service providers with their infrastructure transformation.



On April 1, 2019, we acquired Mist Systems, Inc., or Mist, a software company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence. We believe that the acquisition of Mist will enhance our enterprise networking portfolio by combining Mist’s next-generation Wireless LAN platform with our wired LAN, SD-WAN, and security solutions to deliver end-to-end user and IT experiences. 



In the first quarter of 2019, we continued to experience weakness within our Cloud and Service provider verticals. In our Cloud vertical, the pace of deployments in a portion of our Cloud customer’s networks has been slower than expected. Nevertheless, we are focused on the Cloud vertical as well as the transition to 400-gig Ethernet, or 400G, which we believe will present further opportunities for Juniper across our portfolio as our Cloud customers value high-performance, highly compact, power efficient infrastructures, which we support and continue to develop. 



We believe we will continue to experience weakness with our Cloud customers in the near-term, as deployment cycles remain difficult to predict; however, we remain confident in our competitive position with our strategic Cloud customers. We are taking a number of actions that we believe will help Juniper achieve year-over-year revenue growth in the fourth quarter of 2019 such as: (1) introducing new product offerings which include new MX line cards to capitalize on 5G carrier initiatives, 400G platforms to capture data center footprint, and new enhancements to our Contrail Enterprise Multicloud platform that make it simpler and more cost effective; (2) transitioning our sales organization to better align with our sales strategy; and (3) monetizing our software offerings through subscriptions. Further, we believe the 400G upgrade cycle, 5G deployments, and enterprise multicloud initiatives each represent large opportunities where we are well positioned to benefit over the next several years.



 32

Financial Results and Key Performance Metrics Overview



The following table provides an overview of our financial results and key financial metrics (in millions, except per share amounts, percentages, and days sales outstanding, or DSO): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Of our top ten customers for the first quarter of 2019, three were Cloud, six were Service Provider, and one was in Enterprise. Of these customers, four were located outside of the U.S.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are based on current facts, historical experience, and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances to determine reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. 



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, except for the change in accounting estimates and changes in certain accounting policies related to the adoption of Topic 842 described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, for a full description of the recently adopted accounting standards and recent accounting standards not yet adopted, including the actual and expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference.



 34

Results of Operations



Revenues



The following table presents net revenues by product and service, customer vertical(*), and geographic region (in millions, except percentages): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________________________



(*) Certain insignificant prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.



Product net revenues decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to Cloud and Service Provider, impacting switching and routing. The decrease in product revenues was partially offset by growth in Enterprise.



Routing and switching revenue decreased year-over-year. While Cloud capacity continued to grow year-over-year, the growth in units was not enough to offset the decline in ASP. The decline in our Service Provider business resulted in lower net revenues from our MX, PTX, and QFX product families. The decline was partially offset by revenue growth in Enterprise routing. Given the strength in our Enterprise vertical, strong customer interest in our new platforms, such as Contrail Enterprise Multicloud, MX 204 and MX10003, and the investments we are making in our enterprise sales strategy, we believe our Enterprise vertical will continue to contribute to revenue growth in 2019. We also saw strength in APAC driven by the aforementioned revenue growth in Enterprise, resulting from our solutions based sales strategy to enable the Telco Cloud transformation and enterprise multicloud initiatives. We expect to return to year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter of 2019.



Security net revenues decreased year-over-year, primarily driven by a decrease in our high-end SRX series as it had been undergoing a product refresh cycle and a decline in our other legacy products.



 35

Service net revenues increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts. Additionally, we saw year-over-year services revenue growth in EMEA and Americas.



Gross Margins



The following table presents gross margins (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our gross margins as a percentage of net revenues have been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the mix and average selling prices of our products and services, new product introductions and enhancements, manufacturing, component and logistics costs, expenses for inventory obsolescence and warranty obligations, cost of support and service personnel, customer mix as we continue to expand our footprint with certain strategic customers, the mix of distribution channels through which our products and services are sold, and import tariffs. For example, the United States imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China, which includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States. These import tariffs did not have a significant impact to our gross margins during the three months ended March 31, 2019. For more information on the potential impact of tariffs on our business, see the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report.



Product gross margin



Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased slightly during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower revenue, partially offset by growth in our software revenue. We continue to undertake specific efforts to address certain factors impacting our product gross margin. These efforts include performance and quality improvements through engineering to increase value across our products; optimizing our supply chain and service business; pricing management; and increasing software and solution sales; however, there can be no guarantee that these efforts will be successful or that they will be realized in the time frame we anticipate.



Service gross margin 



Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, due to lower service delivery costs and a one-time recovery of goods and services tax.



 36

Operating Expenses



The following table presents operating expenses (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________



N/M - Not meaningful



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, total operating expenses decreased primarily due to lower personnel-related expenses, driven by a decrease in share-based compensation expense, specifically in research and development, or R&D, and lower salaries and wages driven by a decrease in headcount as a result of restructuring actions. The decrease in total operating expenses was partially offset by restructuring charges in connection with a restructuring plan that was initiated in the first quarter of 2019 (the "2019 Restructuring Plan"), which was designed to realign our workforce with our sales strategy, improve productivity, and enhance cost efficiencies, and by costs related to the acquisition of Mist Systems.



Subsequent to March 31, 2019, we amended the 2019 Restructuring Plan to implement certain additional organizational changes resulting in a realignment of our workforce. As a result, we expect to record severance charges of approximately $6.0 million to $7.5 million related to headcount reductions in the second quarter of 2019.



Other Income (Expense), Net 



The following table presents other income (expense), net (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________



N/M - Not meaningful



Total other income (expense), net increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields.



 37

Income Tax Provision



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effective tax rate increased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a change in the level of discrete items in the comparative period. For further explanation of our income tax provision, see Note 11, Income Taxes, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report.



On July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, or the Court, issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to share-based compensation. On August 7, 2018, the Court withdrew its opinion to allow time for a reconstituted panel to confer. We will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to the financial statements. Had the Ninth Circuit not withdrawn its opinion, our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 would have been higher.



Our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and may be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries that have lower statutory rates or higher than anticipated earnings in countries that have higher statutory rates, by the effect of U.S. income tax on certain foreign earnings and through the imposition of base-erosion prevention measures which may limit the deduction of certain transfer pricing payments. Our effective tax rate may also fluctuate due to changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. See the "Risk Factors" section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report for a description of relevant risks which may adversely affect our results.



As a result of recommendations by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, certain countries in EMEA and APAC have either enacted new corporate tax legislation or are considering enacting such legislation in the near future. We expect the effect of these reform measures to potentially impact long-standing tax principles, particularly in regard to transfer pricing. Consequently, we expect global tax authorities to increasingly challenge our cost sharing and other intercompany arrangements, and the related sourcing of taxable profits in global jurisdictions. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



We have funded our business primarily through our operating activities and the issuance of our long-term debt. The following table presents our capital resources (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________________________



N/M - percentage is not meaningful. 



 38

Summary of Cash Flows 



The following table summarizes cash flow activity from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operations decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower cash collections from customers as a result of lower invoicing, partially offset by a decrease in cash payments to suppliers.



Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities was $104.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $1,112.2 million for the same period in 2018. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, net proceeds from sales, maturities and redemptions of investments was $1,175.3 million, primarily from the liquidation of repatriated offshore investments to fund the accelerated share repurchase program ("2018 ASR") discussed below.



Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to the payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the 2018 ASR during the three months ended March 31, 2018 as described further below, partially offset by the payment of $350.0 million for our Senior Notes that matured during the three months ended March 31, 2019.



Capital Return



In January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program in February 2018, we entered into the 2018 ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock. We made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the 2018 ASR to repurchase our common stock. The aggregate number of shares ultimately repurchased of 29.3 million shares of common stock was determined based on a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.



As of March 31, 2019, there was $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. 



On April 29, 2019, we entered into a new accelerated share repurchase program (the "2019 ASR") with a financial institution, to repurchase an aggregate of approximately $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock. We made an up-front payment of $300.0 million pursuant to the 2019 ASR and received and retired an initial 8.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $240.0 million based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction. 



Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. Our 2018 Stock Repurchase Program may be discontinued at any time. See Note 8, Equity, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion of our share purchase program. 



We declared and paid cash dividends of $0.19 per share, totaling $66.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019. Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board or an authorized committee thereof. See Note 14, Subsequent Event, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to March 31, 2019. 



 39

Revolving Credit Facility



As of March 31, 2019, we had an unsecured revolving credit facility that was due to expire in June 2019 (the “Prior Revolving Credit Facility”), which enabled borrowings of up to $500.0 million, with the option, subject to the lenders' approval, to increase the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million. As of March 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants, and there were no amounts outstanding under our Prior Revolving Credit Facility,



In April 2019, we entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million, subject to the lenders' approval. The Prior Revolving Credit Facility was terminated substantially concurrently with our entering into the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility will terminate in April 2024, subject to two one-year maturity extension options, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Revolving Credit Facility.



Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements



Liquidity and capital resources may be impacted by our operating activities as well as acquisitions, investments in strategic relationships, repurchases of additional shares of our common stock, and payment of cash dividends on our common stock. Following the enactment of the Tax Act, we repatriated approximately $3.0 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments balance from outside of the U.S. as of March 31, 2019. We expect the new territorial tax system to provide us lower cost access to nearly all of our global free cash flow on an ongoing basis. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. We intend to use the repatriated cash to invest in the business, support value-enhancing merger and acquisitions, or M&A, and fund our return of capital to stockholders. See Note 14, Subsequent Event, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for our subsequent events impacting liquidity.



Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term, and long-term investments, together with cash generated from operations and access to capital markets and the revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operations; planned stock repurchases and dividends; capital expenditures; commitments and other liquidity requirements; and anticipated growth for at least the next twelve months. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned depending on many factors, including, but not limited to, our growth rate; the timing and amount we spend to support development efforts; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the introduction of new and enhanced products and services; the costs to acquire or invest in businesses and technologies; an increase in manufacturing or component costs; and the risks and uncertainties detailed in the “Risk Factors” section of Item 1A of Part II of this Report.



 40

