Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



The following discussion and analysis of Leidos Holdings, Inc.'s ("Leidos") financial condition, results of operations and quantitative and qualitative discussion about business environment and trends should be read in conjunction with Leidos' condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes. 



The following discussion contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations with respect to, among other things, trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations, backlog, integration costs, restructuring expenses and activities, our industry and government budgets and spending. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Some of these factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated periodically through our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Due to such uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We do not undertake any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments.



Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries. 



Overview



We are a FORTUNE 500® science, engineering and information technology company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets. We bring domain-specific capability and cross-market innovations to customers in each of these markets by leveraging seven core capabilities: cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering. Our domestic customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, several other U.S. government civil agencies and state and local government agencies. Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in Australia and the United Kingdom ("U.K."). We operate in three reportable segments: Defense Solutions, Civil and Health. Additionally, we separately present the costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate.



Business Environment and Trends 



U.S. Government Markets



During the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government. Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.



On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriations Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY"). All 12 Appropriations bills were funded and no federal department or agency is now operating under a continuing resolution. The appropriations legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provides $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending. Defense programs will see additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending will increase by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011. The legislation also suspends the debt ceiling until March 2019. Congress is now addressing GFY 2019 spending and the passage of all 12 Appropriations bills for the year beginning October 1, 2018.



International Markets



Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 9% of total revenues for both the three and six months ended June 29, 2018. Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in the United Kingdom and Australia. Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.



Lockheed Martin Transaction



On August 16, 2016, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leidos Holdings, Inc. merged with the Information Systems & Global Solutions business (the "IS&GS Business") of Lockheed Martin in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the "Transactions"). The acquired IS&GS Business was renamed Leidos Innovations Corporation.



28

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



On January 10, 2018, the final amount of the net working capital of the IS&GS Business was determined through a binding arbitration proceeding in accordance with the Separation Agreement with Lockheed Martin. On January 18, 2018, the final working capital amount of $105 million was paid to Lockheed Martin.



We incurred integration costs of $7 million and $22 million during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $16 million and $34 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. 



After the acquisition of the IS&GS Business, we initiated a review of our cost structure, which included optimization of our real estate portfolio by vacating facilities that were not necessary for future requirements and reducing headcount. We recognized restructuring expenses of $1 million and $3 million during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $6 million and $19 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively, related to this program. 



Key Performance Measures



The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted earnings per share. Bookings and backlog are also useful measures for management and investors to evaluate our performance and potential future revenues.



Results of Operations



The following table summarizes our condensed consolidated results of operations for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, was 1.8% and 3.7%, respectively, as compared to actual decreases in revenues of 1.6% and 3.5%, respectively. The foreign currency benefit was mainly attributable to our U.K. business in the Civil segment.



_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________



(1) The non-GAAP measure of constant currency revenues is used to assess the performance of revenue activity without the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We calculate revenues on a constant currency basis by translating current period revenue using the foreign currency exchange rates of the comparable prior year periods. This calculation is performed for all subsidiaries where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.



29

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



Segment and Corporate Results



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The increase in revenues for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards, timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, and improved program performance, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts and net volume decreases.



The decrease in revenues for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts and net volume decreases, partially offset by new awards and improved program performance.



The increase in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was due to lower intangible asset amortization, improved program performance and lower general and administrative expenses, partially offset by completed contracts.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion and reduced scope of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.



The decrease in operating income for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to higher profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, reduced scope and the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by lower amortization and a decrease in bad debt expense.



The increase in operating income for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, a decrease in bad debt expense and an increase in new awards, partially offset by reduced scope in the current year and higher profit write-ups in the prior year on certain contracts.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease in revenues for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by net volume increases. 



The decrease in operating income for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts and higher intangible asset amortization, partially offset by net volume increases.



30

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NM - Not meaningful



The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $14 million.



The decrease in operating loss for the six months ended June 29, 2018, as compared to the six months ended June 30, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $29 million, partially offset by an asset impairment charge of $7 million and higher general and administrative expenses.



Non-Operating Expense, net



Non-operating expense, net of $34 million and $68 million for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, was consistent with the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, of $31 million and $64 million, respectively.



Provision for Income Taxes



For the three months ended June 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 12.1% compared to 27.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2017. For the six months ended June 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 14.8% compared to 29.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2017. The decrease in the effective tax rate for both periods was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate and certain tax benefits related to the anticipated sale of our commercial cybersecurity business, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits related to employee stock awards.



Bookings and Backlog 



We received net bookings worth an estimated $3.4 billion and $5.9 billion during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, compared to $2.7 billion and $4.4 billion for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.



31

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



The estimated value of our total backlog was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Total backlog at June 29, 2018 included an adverse impact of $86 million when compared to total backlog at December 29, 2017, due to the exchange rate movements between the U.S. dollar and the British pound. Backlog estimates are subject to change and may be affected by factors including modifications of contracts and foreign currency movements. Our total backlog consists of remaining performance obligations (see "Note 4–Revenues") and unexercised option periods.



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Overview



As of June 29, 2018, we had $303 million in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we have a secured revolving credit facility which can provide up to $750 million in additional borrowing, if required. During the six months ended June 29, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.



At June 29, 2018, and December 29, 2017, we had outstanding debt of $3.1 billion. We made required quarterly payments on our senior secured term loans of $16 million and $31 million during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $21 million and $41 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively. In April 2018, we made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on our senior secured term loans. The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in our credit agreements. In addition to the required payments on our term loans, we prepaid $25 million during the three months ended June 30, 2017. The notes outstanding as of June 29, 2018, contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants. We were in compliance with all covenants as of June 29, 2018. 



We paid dividends of $51 million and $103 million during the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively, and $52 million and $102 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.



For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility. 



32

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



Summary of Cash Flows



 The following table summarizes cash flow information for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net cash provided by operating activities increased $105 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to the favorable timing of working capital changes including improved collections of receivables and lower payments for taxes, integration and restructuring costs, partially offset by lower advance payments from customers and higher interest payments. 



Net cash provided by operating activities increased $198 million for the six months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year, primarily due to the favorable timing of working capital changes including improved collections of receivables, higher advance payments from customers and lower payments for taxes, integration and restructuring costs, partially offset by cash paid of $24 million related to the 2016 acquisition of the IS&GS Business and higher interest payments.



Net cash used in investing activities increased $4 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to proceeds from the sale of a building in the prior year quarter partially offset by lower purchases of property, plant and equipment. 



Net cash used in investing activities increased $95 million for the six months ended June 29, 2018, when compared to the prior year, primarily due to cash paid of $81 million related to the 2016 acquisition of the IS&GS Business, proceeds from the sale of a building in the prior year and higher purchases of property, plant and equipment.



Net cash used in financing activities for the three and six months ended June 29, 2018, increased $80 million and $93 million, respectively, when compared to the prior year, primarily due to the repurchase of stock under the share repurchase program for an aggregate purchase price of $90 million and $100 million, respectively, lower debt payments of $20 million and $25 million, respectively, and cash paid of $23 million related to a tax indemnification liability. This was partially offset by a reduction in tax withholdings related to the vesting of stock awards.



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain aspects of our business. We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition. 



Commitments and Contingencies



We are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits, other uncertainties and future obligations related to our business. For a discussion of these items, see "Note 20–Contingencies" and "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



Critical Accounting Policies



There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates or judgments, other than our revenue recognition policy, that occurred in the period covered by this report from those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2017.



33

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



Revenue Recognition



Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies. We also serve various state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers. 



We perform under various types of contracts, which include firm-fixed-price ("FFP"), time-and-materials ("T&M"), fixed-price-level-of-effort ("FP-LOE"), cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-award-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee and fixed-price-incentive-fee contracts.



To determine the proper revenue recognition, we first evaluate whether we have a duly approved and enforceable contract with a customer, in which the rights of the parties and payment terms are identified, and collectability is probable. We also evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, including the task orders issued under an indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity award. In addition, we assess contract modifications to determine whether the changes to existing contracts should be accounted for as part of the original contract or as a separate contract. Contract modifications for us generally relate to changes in contract specifications and requirements and do not add distinct services, and therefore are accounted for as part of the original contract. If contract modifications add distinct goods or services and increase the contract value by an amount that reflects the standalone selling price, those modifications are accounted for as separate contracts.



Most of our contracts comprise multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services. In all cases, we assess if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation. We generally separate multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or comprise a series of distinct services performed over time, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.



Our contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract. We account for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.



Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services. The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies. Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately. Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer. We exclude any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.



Certain of our cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most probable amount that we expect to be entitled to, based on the assessment of the contractual variable fee criteria, complexity of work and related risks, extent of customer discretion, amount of variable consideration received historically and the potential of significant reversal of revenue.



We allocate the transaction price of a contract to our performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices. The standalone selling price of our performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR. For certain product sales, we use prices from other standalone sales. Substantially all of our contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.



We recognize revenue on our service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services. For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to us. Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred. In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, we recognize revenue at a point in time when the customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession and legal title.



34

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



On FFP contracts, revenue recognized over time generally uses a method that measures the extent of progress towards completion of a performance obligation, principally using a cost-input method (referred to as the cost-to-cost method). Under the cost-to-cost method, revenue is recognized based on the proportion of total cost incurred to estimated total costs-at-completion ("EAC"). A performance obligation's EAC includes all direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, overhead, and a ratable portion of general and administrative costs. In addition, we include in an EAC of a performance obligation future losses estimated to be incurred on onerous contracts, as and when known, and the most likely amount of transaction price (revenue) that we expect to receive for unpriced change orders (modifications). On certain other contracts, principally T&M, FP-LOE, and cost-plus, revenue is recognized using the right-to-invoice practical expedient as we are contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer. Additionally, on maintenance (generally FFP) performance obligations, revenue is recognized over time using a straight-line method as the control of the services is provided to the customer evenly over the period of performance. 



For certain performance obligations, we are not primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the goods or service to the customer, do not have inventory risk and do not have discretion in establishing the price for the goods or service. In such cases, we recognize revenue on a net basis.



Contract costs generally include direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, and indirect costs identifiable with or allocable to a specific contract. Costs are expensed as incurred except for costs incurred during the transition phase of a new contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected life of that contract. We do not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts. Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. 



Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Standards



For a discussion of these items, see "Note 2–Accounting Standards" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



