PART II—OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings.



We have furnished information relating to legal proceedings, and any investigations and reviews that we are involved with in "Note 19–Contingencies" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



There were no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2018. 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.



(a)None



(b)None



(c)Purchases of Equity Securities by the Company 



On February 16, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 20 million shares of our outstanding common stock. The shares may be repurchased from time to time in one or more open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions. The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements, compliance with the terms of our outstanding indebtedness and other considerations. There is no assurance as to the number of shares that will be repurchased, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our Board of Directors' discretion. 



The following table presents repurchases of Leidos common stock during the quarter ended June 28, 2019: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) The total number of shares purchased includes shares surrendered to satisfy statutory tax withholdings obligations related to vesting of restricted stock units. 



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities.



None.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.



Not applicable.



Item 5. Other Information.



None.



35

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



Item 6. Exhibits.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



36

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



