Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements



All statements and assumptions contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q that do not relate to historical facts constitute "forward-looking statements." These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often include the use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "intend," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan" and words and terms of similar substance in connection with discussions of future events, situations or financial performance. While these statements represent our current expectations, no assurance can be given that the results or events described in such statements will be achieved.



Forward-looking statements may include, among other things, statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, prospects, business strategies, competitive position, growth opportunities, and plans and objectives of management. Such statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside of our control, and include, without limitations, the risks and uncertainties discussed in the section titled "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.



Factors or risks that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results we anticipate include, but are not limited to, the following:



•Inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of employees with specialized skill sets or necessary security clearances who are in great demand and limited supply;



•Failure to maintain our relationship with the U.S. government, or the failure to compete effectively for new contract awards or to retain existing U.S. government contracts;



•Disruption of our business or damage to our reputation resulting from security breaches in customer systems, internal systems or service failures (including as a result of cyber or other security threats), or employee or subcontractor misconduct;



•Adverse changes in U.S. government spending for programs we support, whether due to changing mission priorities, socio-economic policies that reduce contracts that we may bid on, cost reduction and efficiency initiatives by our customers or federal budget constraints generally;



•Failure to realize the full amount of our backlog, or adverse changes in the timing of receipt of revenue under contracts included in backlog;



•Adverse results of U.S. government audits or other investigations of our government contracts;



•Issues relating to competing effectively for awards procured through the competitive bidding process, including the adverse impact of delays caused by competitors' protests of contract awards received by us;



•Failure to obtain option awards, task orders or funding under contracts;



•Renegotiation, modification or termination of our contracts, or failure to perform in conformity with contract terms or our expectations;



•Failure to successfully integrate acquired companies or businesses into our operations or to realize any accretive or synergistic effects from such acquisitions;



•Non-compliance with, or adverse changes in, complex U.S. government laws, procurement regulations or processes; 



•Adverse change in business conditions that may cause our investments in recorded goodwill to become impaired; and



•Increased exposure to risks associated with conducting business internationally.



We urge you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement made herein following the date of this Quarterly Report, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events or circumstances, changes in expectations or otherwise.



 21



Overview



We provide mission-focused technology solutions and services for U.S. defense, intelligence community and federal civilian agencies. We excel in full-spectrum cyber, data collection & analytics, enterprise information technology (IT), systems and software engineering solutions that support national and homeland security. 



Approximately 98% of our revenues are generated through contracts with the U.S. federal government. As such, our business is impacted by the overall U.S. government budget and our ability to match our capabilities and offerings to the U.S. government's spending priorities. Through legislation passed in September 2018 and February 2019, all agencies of the U.S. federal government were funded through Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. In August 2019, Congress passed and the president signed a new two-year budget deal, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019. The Act effectively ended the threat of sequestration by increasing spending for GFY 2020 and 2021 above caps previously in place under the Budget Control Act. The GFY 2020 and 2021 budgets include increases for areas supporting national security. Despite the passage of a two year budget, Congress has not yet passed full year appropriations and as of October 1st, began operating under a Continuing Resolution (CR). If Congress is unable to approve appropriations by November 21st, the U.S. Government and its agencies may be subjected to funding restrictions through a CR or, if there is a failure to pass interim funding, a government shutdown. 



We classify indirect costs incurred as cost of services and general and administrative expenses in the same manner as such costs are defined in our disclosure statements under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards. Effective January 1, 2019, we updated our disclosure statements with the Defense Contract Management Agency, resulting in certain costs being classified differently either as cost of services or as general and administrative expenses on a prospective basis. This change has caused a net increase in the reported cost of services and a net decrease in reported general and administrative expenses in 2019 as compared to 2018; however, total operating costs were not affected by this change.



We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Three Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 



The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from September 30, 2018 to September 30, 2019.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 22



Revenue



The primary driver of our increase in revenues relates to revenue from new contract awards, growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work or lower material purchases on some contracts.



Cost of services 



The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for both the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for the three months ended September 30, 2019, compared to 39% for the same period in 2018. 



General and administrative expenses 



The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to additional infrastructure spending to support the growth of our business, bid and proposal expenditures and additional expenses related to legal matters. These increases were partially offset by the reclassification of certain allocable expenses from general and administrative expenses to cost of services.



Interest expense 



The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings on our revolving line of credit to fund our acquisitions. 



Provision for income taxes 



Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as the relative amount of income we earn in various taxing jurisdictions and their tax rates. It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year. Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 24% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The primary driver of the increase in our effective tax rate was the impact of discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2018, which were more favorable than discrete items recognized in the third quarter of 2019.



 23



Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 



The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from September 30, 2018 to September 30, 2019.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue



The primary driver of our increase in revenues was revenue from new contract awards and growth on certain existing contracts and our recent acquisitions, which was offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.



Cost of services 



The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 47% and 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, were 38% for both the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. 



General and administrative expenses 



The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to increased expenditures on support infrastructure improvements, expenditures related to our recent acquisitions and other legal matters. These increases were partially offset by reduced bid and proposal spending, lower amortization on acquired intangibles and the reclassification of certain allocable expenses from general and administrative expenses to cost of services. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue to increase slightly during the remainder of 2019 due to increased bid and proposal spending in the last quarter of 2019.



Interest expense



The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowing on our revolving line of credit to fund the acquisitions of Kforce Government Solutions (KGS) and H2M Group (H2M). We expect interest expense to decrease slightly for the remainder of 2019 due to increased cash on hand. 



 24



Provision for income taxes 



Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as the relative amount of income we earn in various taxing jurisdictions and their tax rates. It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year. Our effective income tax rates were 26% and 25% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We have been engaged in a project to review and improve the method by which we identify expenditures that qualify for the research and development tax credit. This project is ongoing, however, we expect to complete the review and implement changes in our methodology in the fourth quarter of 2019. After completion, we expect to amend our prior year tax returns and record a tax benefit in our tax provision, which could potentially have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Assuming adequate levels of taxable income, our improved methodology for identifying expenditures that qualify for the research and development tax credit could provide tax benefits in future years that are expected to lower our future effective tax rate.



Backlog



Backlog represents estimates that we calculate on a consistent basis. We define backlog as our estimates of the remaining revenue from existing signed contracts, assuming the exercise of all options relating to such contracts and including executed task orders issued under Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity contracts. 



We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work. Our funded backlog does not include the full value of our contracts because Congress often appropriates funds for a particular program or contract on a yearly or quarterly basis, even though the contract may call for performance over a much longer period of time.



A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts. Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.



At September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, our backlog was $9.5 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively. Our funded backlog was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. 



The following table reconciles our backlog to our remaining performance obligations as disclosed in Note 3 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 (in billions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility. On September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $33.3 million. There were outstanding borrowings of $25.0 million under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019. The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019 were $467.3 million. As of September 30, 2019, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $7.7 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. 



Cash Flows From (Used In) Operating Activities



Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts. We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered. Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 57 and 67 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, our net cash from operating activities was $233.0 



 25



million and $94.2 million, respectively. The increase in net cash flows from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 when compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.



Cash Flows From (Used In) Investing Activities



For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 our net cash used in investing activities was $197.7 million, which was primarily due to the acquisitions of KGS and H2M and the purchase of equipment to support managed IT service contracts, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $36.8 million, which was primarily used for the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments, closing working payments related to the purchase of InfoZen and capitalized software for internal use.



Cash Flows From (Used in) Financing Activities



For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, our net cash used in financing activities was $7.3 million, which was primarily due to dividends paid, offset by net borrowings under our revolving credit facility and proceeds from the exercise of stock options. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities were $51.9 million, which was primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options.



Revolving Credit Facility



We maintain a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A., as sole administrative agent. The credit agreement provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility, with a $75 million letter of credit sublimit and a $30 million swing line loan sublimit. The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments. The maturity date is August 17, 2022. Borrowings under our credit agreement are collateralized by substantially all of our assets and our Material Subsidiaries (as defined in the credit agreement) and bear interest at one of the following variable rates as selected by us at the time of borrowing: a London Interbank Offer Rate base rate plus market spreads (1.25% to 2.25% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio) or Bank of America's base rate plus market spreads (0.25% to 1.25% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio). There were outstanding borrowings of $25.0 million on our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2019. As of and during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.



Capital Resources



We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year. We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.



Cash Management



To the extent possible, we invest our available cash in short-term, investment grade securities in accordance with our investment policy. Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible. Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days. Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.



Dividend



During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.27 per share and $0.25 per share, respectively, on both classes of our common stock. While we expect to continue the cash dividend program, any future dividends declared will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend, among other factors, upon our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, as well as such other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant.



 26



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers. As of September 30, 2019, $7.7 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn. We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force. This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $7.6 million. 



Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies



Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties, and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Application of these policies is particularly important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies for 2018 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, previously filed with the SEC. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates and policies from those discussed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than lease accounting associated with the implementation of ASC 842, which is described below.



Lease Accounting



We determine if a contract is or contains a lease at inception. A contract is or contains a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of identified property or equipment (an identified asset) for a period of time in exchange for consideration. We have the right to control the use of the identified asset when we have both of the following: the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the identified asset and the right to direct the use of the identified asset. In making this determination, we consider all relevant facts and circumstances. We reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease only if the terms and conditions of the contract are changed. We account for lease components and nonlease components associated with a lease as a single lease component. Operating leases are included in Operating lease ROU assets, Operating lease liabilities—current and Operating lease liabilities—long term on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in Property and equipment—net, Accounts payable and other accrued expenses and Other long-term liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.



Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives. Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. Our lease payments consist of amounts relating to the use of the underlying asset during the lease term, specifically fixed payments, payments to be made in optional periods when we are reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease and the amounts probable of being owed by us under residual guarantees. Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments. We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments. Our leases typically do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the commencement date in determining the present value of future payments.



For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement. In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term. The depreciation of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance. Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability; they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.



For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method. In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments. We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation. The ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis. Together, the interest expense and depreciation expense result in a front-loaded expense profile. We will present interest expense and depreciation expense separately on our condensed consolidated statement of income.



 27



Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Updates



The FASB has issued ASU 2019-07, Codification Updates to SEC Sections—Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Final Rule Releases No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, and Nos. 33-10231 and 33-10442, Investment Company Reporting Modernization, and Miscellaneous Updates, to align SEC paragraphs in the Codification with changes made in the above-referenced SEC rules (primarily to Regulation S-X, which sets forth the form and content of financial statements). By way of background, in August 2018, the SEC issued Final Rulemaking Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain of its disclosure requirements that were duplicative, overlapping or outdated in light of the SEC’s other disclosure requirements, U.S. GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). We adopted the requirements of ASU 2019-17, which had no effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.



ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) supersedes the leases requirements in Topic 840, Leases. The objective of Topic 842 is to establish the principles that lessees and lessors should apply to report useful information to users of financial statements about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a lease. We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method at the beginning of the period of adoption, January 1, 2019, through the recognition of a lease liability and corresponding right of use asset. We elected the following transition related practical expedients: not to reassess whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, not to reassess lease classification as determined under ASC 840 and, not to reassess initial direct costs for any existing lease. We have also elected not to apply the recognition and measurement requirements to short-term leases (less than 1 year). Additional details are included in Note 4 in our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1. 



ASU 2018-02, Income Statement—Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which helps organizations reclassify certain stranded income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), enacted on December 22, 2017. We elected to adopt this ASU at the beginning of the period of adoption, January 1, 2019. We recorded an adjustment to the 2019 opening retained earnings in the amount of $24 thousand related to the change in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate.



Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted ASUs



The FASB has issued ASU 2018-18, Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808): Clarifying the Interaction between Topic 808 and Topic 606, which resolves the diversity in practice concerning the manner in which entities account for transactions on the basis of their view of the economics of the collaborative arrangement. A collaborative arrangement, as defined by the guidance in Topic 808, is a contractual arrangement under which two or more parties actively participate in a joint operating activity and are exposed to significant risks and rewards that depend on the activity’s commercial success. In particular, the amendments in ASU 2018-18 (1) clarify that certain transactions between collaborative participants should be accounted for as revenue under Topic 606 when the collaborative participant is a customer in the context of the unit of account, and that, in those situations, all the guidance in Topic 606 should be applied, including recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure requirements; (2) add unit-of-account guidance in Topic 808 to align with the guidance in Topic 606 (i.e., a distinct good or service), limited to when an entity is assessing whether the collaborative arrangement or a part of the arrangement is within the scope of Topic 606; and (3) clarify that in a transaction that is not directly related to sales to third parties, presenting the transaction as revenue would be precluded if the collaborative participant counterparty was not a customer. The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. Note that early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period for public business entities for periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We are currently evaluating the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.



The FASB has issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which focuses on improving the effectiveness of disclosures in the notes to financial statements by facilitating clear communication of the information required by GAAP that is most important to users of each entity’s financial statements. The amendments in ASU 2018-13 modify the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements in Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement. Specifically, the amendments in this ASU remove disclosure requirements in Topic 820 related to (1) the amount of, and reasons for, transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; (2) the policy for timing of transfers between levels; (3) the valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements; and (4) for non-public entities, the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in earnings for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period. The ASU also modifies disclosure requirements such that (1) in place of a rollforward for Level 3 fair value measurements, a non-public entity is required to disclose transfers into and out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and purchases and issues of Level 3 assets and liabilities; (2) for investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value, an entity is required to disclose the timing of liquidation of an investee’s assets and the date that restrictions from redemption might lapse, only if the investee has communicated the timing to the entity or announced the timing publicly; and (3) it is clear that the measurement uncertainty disclosure is to communicate information about the uncertainty in measurement as of the reporting date. Additionally, the ASU adds disclosure requirements for public entities about (1) the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the 



 28



period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption. All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. Note that early application is permitted for all entities; moreover, an entity is allowed to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. We are currently evaluating when we will adopt this standard as well as its effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 



As part of its disclosure framework project, the FASB has issued ASU 2018-14, Compensation—Retirement Benefits—Defined Benefit Plans—General (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which modify the disclosure requirements for employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. Specifically, certain disclosure requirements are removed from Subtopic 715-20, Compensation—Retirement Benefits—Defined Benefit Plans—General, including, among others, (1) the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year; (2) the disclosures related to the June 2001 amendments to the Japanese Welfare Pension Insurance Law; and (3) related party disclosures concerning the amount of future annual benefits covered by insurance and annuity contracts and significant transactions between the employer or related parties and the plan. Certain other disclosure requirements are added to Subtopic 715-20, including (1) the weighted-average interest crediting rates for cash balance plans and other plans with promised interest crediting rates; and (2) an explanation of the reasons for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period. Finally, the amendments in this ASU clarify disclosure requirements in Paragraph 715-20-50-3. The amendments are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020. We are currently evaluating the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 



The FASB has issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other—Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force), which aims to reduce complexity in the accounting for costs of implementing a cloud computing service arrangement. In fact, ASU 2018-15 aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). Accordingly, the amendments in this ASU require an entity (customer) in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract to follow the guidance in Subtopic 350-40, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other—Internal-Use Software, in order to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense. Costs to develop or obtain internal-use software that cannot be capitalized under Subtopic 350-40 (e.g., training costs and certain data conversion costs) also cannot be capitalized for a hosting arrangement that is a service contract. Additionally, the amendments in this ASU require the entity (customer) to expense the capitalized implementation costs of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract over the term of the hosting arrangement (i.e., the noncancellable period of the arrangement plus periods covered by (1) an option to extend the arrangement if the customer is reasonably certain to exercise that option, (2) an option to terminate the arrangement if the customer is reasonably certain not to exercise the termination option and (3) an option to extend (or not to terminate) the arrangement in which exercise of the option is in the control of the vendor). The amendments in this ASU also require the entity to present the expense related to the capitalized implementation costs in the same line item in the statement of income as the fees associated with the hosting element (service) of the arrangement, and to classify payments for capitalized implementation costs in the statement of cash flows in the same manner as payments made for fees associated with the hosting element. Note that the accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments in this ASU. The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating methods of adoption as well as the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. 



The FASB has issued ASU 2018-17, Consolidation (Topic 810): Targeted Improvements to Related Party Guidance for Variable Interest Entities, which reduces the cost and complexity of financial reporting associated with consolidation of variable interest entities (VIEs). Specially, the indirect interests held through related parties in common control arrangements should be considered on a proportional basis (as opposed to a direct interest in its entirety) for determining whether fees paid to decision makers and service providers are variable interests. This is consistent with how indirect interests held through related parties under common control are considered for determining whether a reporting entity must consolidate a VIE. The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.



The FASB has issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation—Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting which supersedes the guidance in Subtopic 505-50, Equity—Equity-Based Payments to Non- 



 29



Employees. In particular, ASU 2018-07 expands the scope of Topic 718, Compensation—Stock Compensation (which previously only included payments to employees), to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. In fact, an entity should now apply the requirements of Topic 718 to non-employee awards, except for specific guidance on inputs to an option pricing model and the attribution of cost (i.e., the period of time over which share-based payment awards vest and the pattern of cost recognition over that period). Additionally, the amendments specify that Topic 718 applies to all share-based payment transactions in which a grantor acquires goods or services to be used or consumed in the grantor’s own operations by issuing share-based payment awards, and clarify that Topic 718 does not apply to share-based payments used to effectively provide (1) financing to the issuer or (2) awards granted in conjunction with selling goods or services to customers as part of a contract accounted for under Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods with fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, for reporting periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.



The FASB has issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which simplifies the manner in which an entity determines the amount of a goodwill impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. In computing the implied fair value of goodwill under Step 2, an entity, prior to the amendments in ASU 2017-04, had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities, including unrecognized assets and liabilities, in accordance with the procedure that would be required in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Under the amendments in this ASU, an entity should (1) perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and (2) recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, with the understanding that the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Public entities should adopt the amendments in this ASU prospectively for their annual, or any interim periods, in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for all entities for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. We will evaluate adopting when we perform our goodwill impairment test in 2019. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.



The FASB has issued ASU 2019-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, to provide financial statement users with more decision-useful information about the expected credit losses on financial instruments and other commitments to extend credit held by a reporting entity at each reporting date by replacing the incurred loss impairment methodology in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. Prior GAAP included multiple credit impairment objectives that generally delayed recognition of the full amount of credit losses until it was probable that the loss would occur. The new guidance eliminates the probable initial recognition threshold and, instead, reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses. The new guidance broadens the information that an entity must consider in developing its expected credit loss estimate for assets measured either collectively or individually to include forecasted information, as well as past events and current conditions. There is no specified method for measuring expected credit losses, and an entity is allowed to apply methods that reasonably reflect its expectations of the credit loss estimate. Although an entity may still use its current systems and methods for recording the allowance for credit losses, under the new rules, the inputs used to record the allowance for credit losses generally will need to change to appropriately reflect an estimate of all expected credit losses and the use of reasonable and supportable forecasts. The accounting for purchased credit impaired financial assets under the amendments will make the allowance for credit losses more comparable between originated assets and purchased financial assets, as well as reduce complexity with the accounting for interest income. Additionally, credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities will now have to be presented as an allowance rather than as a write-down. This approach is an improvement to current GAAP, because unlike current GAAP, which prohibits reflecting reversals of credit losses, an entity will be able to record reversals of credit losses in current-period net income in situations in which the estimate of credit losses declines, thereby aligning the income statement recognition of credit losses with the reporting period in which the changes occur. For public business entities that are SEC filers, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. For all other public business entities, the amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.



Other ASUs effective after September 30, 2019 are not expected to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.



 30



