Item 4. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



As of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as required by paragraph (b) of Rule 13a-15 or Rule 15d-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), we evaluated under the supervision of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that because of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting described below, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to ensure that information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act (i) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and (ii) is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management. Our disclosure controls and procedures include components of our internal control over financial reporting. Management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is expressed at the level of reasonable assurance because a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met.



Material Weaknesses in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



A material weakness (as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act) is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.



In reviewing the accounting for certain transactions completed in fiscal 2019 as part of the realignment of our legal structure and other significant transactions, our management identified deficiencies in the operating effectiveness of controls intended to properly document and review relevant facts used to determine and apply the appropriate tax accounting under accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. Additionally, our controls did not operate to validate the completeness and accuracy of information used in the execution of certain key tax controls. These control deficiencies impacted the deferred tax, long-term income tax payable, and income tax benefit accounts and related disclosures and resulted in adjustments to our annual financial statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2019. The errors arising from the underlying deficiencies are not material to the financial statements reported in any interim or annual period and therefore, did not result in a revision to previously filed financial statements. However, the control deficiencies could result in a failure to timely prevent or detect misstatements of the aforementioned accounts and disclosures that could be material to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, our management has concluded that the deficiencies, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.



In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we also identified deficiencies in the design of our internal control over financial reporting as our management determined that there were not sufficient controls to prevent, detect and respond to unauthorized 



51

access to our IT systems in a timely manner. Network authentication, segmentation and monitoring were in place, but were not sufficiently designed to address changes in the current risk environment. Our management has concluded that these deficiencies, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.



Remediation Plans and Other Information



As previously described in Part II, Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we began implementing a remediation plan to address the foregoing material weaknesses. However, these material weaknesses will not be considered remediated until the applicable controls operate for a sufficient period of time and management has concluded, through testing, that these controls are operating effectively. We expect the remediation of these material weaknesses to be completed by the end of fiscal 2020. 



Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we transitioned certain of Microsemi's processes to our internal control processes and we expect to transition more of such processes throughout the remainder of fiscal 2020.



In connection with the identified material weaknesses related to accounting for income taxes and to IT system access, we have taken steps to remediate the material weaknesses as described above. However, other than with respect to our transition of Microsemi to our systems and control environment as described above, during the three months ended September 30, 2019, there was no change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Rule 13a-15 or Rule 15d-15 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



52

