PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 ITEM 1.  



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.  



On March 9, 2016, a putative class action lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-733154-C, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub. On March 25, 2016, a second putative class action complaint captioned Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-734039-B, was filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement. The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that the directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices, and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief. On April 14, 2016, the Court granted plaintiffs’ motion to consolidate the Pincon and Chung actions.  



44  



Table of Contents 



On October 19, 2016, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement. The complaint named as defendants the Company, Newport, and the then-current members of Newport’s former board of directors. It alleged that the named directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices, and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaint also alleged that the Company and Newport aided and abetted the named directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaint sought monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. On December 9, 2016, defendants filed motions to dismiss the amended complaint, which plaintiffs opposed. On June 22, 2017, the Court dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.  



On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint, which names as defendants certain former directors of Newport. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action pursuant to stipulations among the parties. The second amended complaint alleges that the directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. On September 1, 2017 the Newport directors filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint, which plaintiffs opposed. The Court held a hearing on the motion to dismiss on December 7, 2017. On January 5, 2018, the Court entered an order denying the motion to dismiss. The Newport directors answered the second amended complaint, denying the material allegations of the complaint and asserting defenses, on February 20, 2018. On May 17, 2018, plaintiff Hubert C. Pincon filed a motion to certify a putative class of former Newport stockholders and appoint Mr. Pincon as the sole representative of the proposed class. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. On July 3, 2018, Mr. Pincon filed an amended motion for class certification seeking to have purported class member Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers-Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust appointed as an additional class representative.  



On May 23, 2018, the Company received a third-party subpoena duces tecum requesting documents and a deposition on various topics in the state of Massachusetts. The Company served plaintiffs with objections and responses to the subpoena on June 6, 2018. Discovery negotiations are ongoing.  



We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  



45  



Table of Contents 



 ITEM 1A.  



RISK FACTORS.  



Information regarding risk factors affecting the Company’s business are discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the section entitled “Risk Factors.” There have been no material changes from the risks disclosed therein.  



There have been no material changes to the risk factors as described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 other than the supplemental risk factor added below.  



If significant additional tariffs or other trade restrictions are placed on our products made in China and/or the components that we or our suppliers source from China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed.  



General trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with one round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July 2018, and a second round expected to be implemented before the end of September 2018. Although we do not anticipate a material impact on our products made in China from the first and second rounds of U.S. tariffs, a third round of tariffs has been proposed by the U.S. In July 2018, the Trump Administration proposed a new list of thousands of categories of goods, including electronics, that could face tariffs of 10%. The Trump Administration subsequently proposed that the third round tariffs be increased from 10% to 25%. If the proposed new tariff list remains unaltered and these additional tariffs are placed on our products made in China and/or the components that we or our suppliers source from China, or any related counter-measures are taken by China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We will explore all of our options to reduce the potential impact of these proposed tariffs on our business, including but not limited to, seeking alternative sources for our components, modifying other business practices, raising our prices, and shifting production outside of China. Additionally, the Trump Administration continues to signal that it may alter trade agreements and terms between China and the United States, including limiting trade with China, and may impose additional tariffs on imports from China. Even if the currently proposed tariffs are not imposed on our products or on the components that we or our suppliers source from China, it is possible further tariffs will be imposed on imports of our products or the components used in our products, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to seek alternative suppliers, raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  



 ITEM 6.  



EXHIBITS.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 +  



Previously filed  



 *  



Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (2)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001.  



 (3)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002.  



 (4)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2014.  



 (5)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 12, 2018.  



 (6)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 11, 2018.  



46  



Table of Contents 



