PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 ITEM 1. 



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.   



Newport Litigation  



In 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.



 A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.



 A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The Court consolidated the actions, and plaintiffs later filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.



 A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement. The amended complaint alleged Newport’s former board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders and that the Company, Newport and Merger Sub had aided and abetted these breaches. It sought monetary damages, including



 pre- and post-judgment interest. In June 2017, the Court granted defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.   



On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including



 pre- and post-judgment interest. The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon  



46 



Table of Contents 



and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating 



Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. On May 1, 2019, the Court granted the defendants’ motion to strike plaintiffs’ jury demand and determined that the case will be tried by the Court, and not a jury. A bench trial is scheduled for the first quarter of 2020. Fact discovery in the action is complete, and expert discovery is ongoing.   



The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  



 ITEM 1A. 



RISK FACTORS.   



Information regarding risk factors affecting the Company’s business are discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 



10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 in the section entitled “Risk Factors.” There have been no material changes to the risk factors as described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in our Annual Report on Form 



10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 other than the supplemental risk factor added below. 



If significant tariffs or other trade restrictions on our products or components that are imported from or exported to China continue or are increased, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed.  



General trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating throughout 2018 and 2019, with one round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July 2018, a second round in August 2018 and a third round in September 2018. In response to each of these rounds of U.S. tariffs, China imposed retaliatory tariffs in July 2018, August 2018 and September 2018 on certain products made in the U.S. and shipped to China. The Trump Administration subsequently increased its third round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods in May 2019 from 10% to 25% and China responded with retaliatory increases to its third round of tariffs on certain U.S. goods in June 2019. These tariffs currently affect some of our products made in China and some of the components that we or our suppliers source from China, and some of our products and components we export to China. The U.S. and China tariffs have negatively impacted our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exploring and will continue to explore all of our options to reduce the impact of these tariffs on our business, including but not limited to, seeking alternative sources for our components, modifying other business practices, raising our prices, and shifting production outside of China.  



In May 2019, the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) added Chinese-based Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. and 68 of its affiliates onto the BIS Entity List, thereby prohibiting the sale of U.S. goods to Huawei, without a license from BIS. Accordingly, the Company has had to suspend outstanding orders from Huawei, and has been negatively impacted by the cancellation of orders from customers who are providers to Huawei. In addition, China’s Ministry of Commerce announced in May 2019 that China will introduce an “unreliable entity list” under which non-Chinese entities that cut off suppliers to Chinese companies may be subject to government action.  



On August 1, 2019, the Trump Administration proposed a fourth round of U.S. tariffs on thousands of categories of goods, including electronics, of 10%. In addition, the Trump Administration has continued to signal that it may alter trade agreements and terms between China and the United States, including limiting trade with China. It is possible that additional restrictions on trade will be imposed, that further tariffs will be imposed, including the tariffs proposed on August 1, 2019, and that existing tariffs will be increased on imports of our products or the components used in our products, or that our business will be impacted by additional retaliatory tariffs or restrictions imposed and/or increased by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to lose sales revenue, incur increased costs and lower margins, seek alternative suppliers, raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.   



Further, the geopolitical and economic uncertainty between the U.S. and China caused by the tariffs and trade bans have caused, and may continue to cause, decreased demand for our products, directly and indirectly, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. This trade uncertainty has caused, and may continue to cause, customers to delay or cancel orders as they limit expenditures that could be affected by future actions and evaluate ways to mitigate their own tariff and cost exposure. Such delays and cancellations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  



47 



Table of Contents 



 ITEM 6. 



EXHIBITS.   



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 + 



Previously filed   



 * 



Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement   



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



48 



Table of Contents 



