PART II.  



OTHER INFORMATION 



ITEM 1.  



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. 



In March 2016, two putative class actions lawsuit captioned Dixon Chung v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-733154-C and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No. A-16-734039-B were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport for claims related to the Merger Agreement between the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub. The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors. Both complaints alleged that Newport directors breached their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders by agreeing to sell Newport through an inadequate and unfair process, which led to inadequate and unfair consideration, by agreeing to unfair deal protection devices and by omitting material information from the proxy statement. The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties. The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief. On April 14, 2016, the Court consolidated the actions.  



48 



On October 19, 2016, plaintiffs in the consolidated action filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No. A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Merger Agreement. The amended complaint contained substantially similar allegations related to Newport’s former board of directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties to Newport’s stockholders. The amended complaint sought monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. On June 22, 2017, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.  



On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants. On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action. The second amended complaint seeks monetary damages, including pre- and post-judgment interest. The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives. On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation. Discovery is ongoing in this action. 



We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  



ITEM 1A.  



RISK FACTORS. 



Information regarding risk factors affecting the Company’s business are discussed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the section entitled “Risk Factors.” There have been no material changes to the risk factors as described in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 other than the supplemental risk factor added below. 



If significant additional tariffs or other trade restrictions are placed on our products made in China and/or the components that we or our suppliers source from China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. 



General trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with one round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July 2018, and a second round implemented in September 2018. Although we do not anticipate a material impact on our products made in China from the first and second rounds of U.S. tariffs, a third round of tariffs has been proposed by the U.S. In July 2018, the Trump Administration proposed a new list of thousands of categories of goods, including electronics, that could face tariffs of 10%. The Trump Administration subsequently proposed that the third round tariffs be increased from 10% to 25% in January 2019 if there is no agreement on trade with China. If the proposed new tariff list remains unaltered and these additional tariffs are placed on our products made in China and/or the components that we or our suppliers source from China, or any related counter-measures are taken by China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. To date, China’s retaliatory tariffs have generally focused on other industries. We will explore all of our options to reduce the potential impact of these proposed tariffs on our business, including but not limited to, seeking alternative sources for our components, modifying other business practices, raising our prices, and shifting production outside of China. Additionally, the Trump Administration continues to signal that it may alter trade agreements and terms between China and the United States, including limiting trade with China, and may impose additional tariffs on imports from China. Even if the currently proposed tariffs are not imposed on our products or on the components that we or our suppliers source from China, it is possible further tariffs will be imposed on imports of our products or the components used in our products, or that our business will be impacted by retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response to existing or future tariffs, causing us to seek alternative suppliers, raise prices or make changes to our operations, any of which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 



49 



ITEM 2.  



UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



The following table sets forth certain information with respect to repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended September 30, 2018.  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)  



On July 25, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program (the “Program”) for the repurchase of up to an aggregate of $200 million of our common stock from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means, which we announced on July 27, 2011. The timing and quantity of any shares repurchased will depend upon a variety of factors, including business conditions, stock market conditions, debt agreement limitations and business development activities, including but not limited to merger and acquisition opportunities. These repurchases may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. 



(2)  



We have repurchased approximately 2,588,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $127 million pursuant to the Program since its adoption. 



50 



ITEM 6.  



EXHIBITS. 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



+  



Previously filed 



(1)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-49738), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 13, 2000.  



(2)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001 (File No. 000-23621), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 14, 2001. 



(3)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2002 (File No. 000-23621), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 13, 2002. 



(4)  



Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 000-23621), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2014.  



51 



