Item 1. Financial Statements 



MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Balance Sheets



(in thousands, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note: The Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



2

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)



(in thousands, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.      



3

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)



(in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



4

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)



(in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.



5

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



(Dollars and shares in thousands, unless otherwise noted)



NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION 



The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.



The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries. 



We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information furnished in these consolidated financial statements includes normal recurring adjustments and reflects all adjustments that are, in our opinion, necessary for a fair presentation of such financial statements. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to SEC rules and regulations. The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 filed with the SEC. Interim results of operations for the third fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year. 



We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30. Fiscal year 2018 ending on September 29, 2018 will consist of 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2017 ended on September 30, 2017 and consisted of 52 weeks. 



NOTE 2 RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



Revenue Recognition



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), and in August 2015, issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of Effective Date, which amended ASU No. 2014-09 as to the effective date of the standard. The guidance, as amended, clarifies the principles for revenue recognition in transactions involving contracts with customers. Determination of when and how revenue is recognized will be based on a five-step analysis. The new guidance will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The mandatory effective date of the new revenue recognition standard was deferred by one year under ASU No. 2015-14. 



In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net), which amends ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), to clarify principal versus agent guidance in situations in which a revenue transaction involves a third party in providing goods or services to a customer. In such circumstances, an entity must determine whether the nature of its promise to the customer is to provide the underlying goods or services (i.e., the entity is the principal in the transaction) or to arrange for the third party to provide the underlying goods or services (i.e., the entity is the agent in the transaction). To determine the nature of its promise to the customer, the entity must first identify each specified good or service to be provided to the customer and then (before transferring it) assess whether it controls each specified good or service. The new guidance clarifies how an entity should identify the unit of accounting (the specified good or service) for the principal versus agent evaluation, and how it should apply the control principle to certain types of arrangements, such as service transactions, by explaining what a principal controls before the specified good or service is transferred to the customer. 



In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, to amend ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), on identifying performance obligations to allow entities to disregard items that are immaterial in the context of the contract, clarify when a promised good or service is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract and allow an entity to elect to account for the cost of shipping and handling performed after control of a good has been transferred to the customer as a fulfillment cost or an expense. The updated guidance also clarifies how an entity would evaluate the nature of its promise in granting a license of intellectual property, which determines whether the entity recognizes revenue over time or at a point in time, and other aspects relative to licensing.



6

In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-11, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Rescission of SEC Guidance Because of Accounting Standards Updates 2014-09 and 2014-16 Pursuant to Staff Announcements at the March 3, 2016 EITF Meeting (SEC Update), which rescinds previous guidance on revenue and expense recognition for freight services in process, accounting for shipping and handling fees and costs and accounting for consideration given by a vendor to a customer.



In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, which amends ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), to clarify that, for a contract to be considered completed at transition, all (or substantially all) of the revenue must have been recognized under legacy GAAP. The amendment also added an expedient to ease transition for contracts that were modified prior to adoption of the new revenue standard and clarifies both how an entity should evaluate the collectibility threshold and when an entity can recognize non-refundable considerations received as revenue if the arrangement does not meet the standard's contract criteria. The amendment clarifies that fair value of non-cash considerations should be measured at contract inception when determining the transaction price and allows an entity to make an accounting policy election to exclude from the transaction price certain types of taxes collected from a customer if it discloses the policy.



In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), providing thirteen corrections and improvements to the new revenue standard.



The aforementioned revenue standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The new standards and amendments may be adopted retrospectively for all periods presented, or adopted using a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2018. We intend to adopt the aforementioned revenue standards and amendments for our fiscal year 2019. The modified retrospective approach will be used as our method of adoption. We have substantially completed our review and analysis of our sales channels, selected contracts, policies and practices as compared to the new guidance and continue to work through implementation steps. We continue to evaluate and design our procedural and system requirements related to the provisions of this standard. We are updating and rewriting our revenue recognition accounting policy as needed to reflect the requirements of this standard, and we are drafting our new revenue disclosures. We anticipate the revenue recognition methodology will change for certain products and contracts. Certain contracts will have a delay in revenue recognition until the customer takes control of the product, while certain products and contracts will accelerate to recognize revenue over the life of the contract. This change may have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition in our Test segment with minimal impact to our Sensors segment. We continue to evaluate the impact that these changes in methodology will have on our consolidated financial statements.



Leases 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months. Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to renew or purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised. The new guidance also requires certain qualitative and quantitative disclosures designed to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases, along with additional key information about leasing arrangements. 



In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, to clarify certain aspects of the new lease standard. The FASB also issued ASU No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements, which allows the election of an optional transition method to apply the provisions of the new lease standard as of the date of adoption and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings in the period of adoption, while continuing to present all prior periods under previous lease accounting guidance. 



The aforementioned lease standards and amendments are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. The new standards and amendments are to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients and an optional transition method. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.



7

Other



In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-04, Liabilities—Extinguishments of Liabilities (Subtopic 405-20): Recognition of Breakage for Certain Prepaid Stored-Value Products, which amends existing guidance on extinguishing financial liabilities for certain prepaid stored-value products. The new standard requires recognition of the expected breakage amount or the value that is ultimately not redeemed either proportionally in earnings as redemption occurs or when redemption is remote, if issuers are not entitled to breakage. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The amendment is to be applied either using a modified retrospective approach by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the year or retrospectively to each period presented. Early adoption is permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which changes the accounting for credit losses on instruments measured at amortized cost by adding an impairment model that is based on expected losses rather than incurred losses. An entity will recognize as an allowance its estimate of expected credit losses, which is believed to result in more timely recognition of such losses as the standard eliminates the probable initial recognition threshold. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2021. The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which adopted. Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. We have not yet evaluated the impact the adoption of this guidance may have on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs. Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.



In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, which changes how employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement benefit plans present the net periodic benefit cost in the income statement. The new guidance requires the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost to be presented in the same income statement line items as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period with only the service cost component eligible for capitalization in assets. Other components of the net periodic benefit cost are to be stated separately from the line items that include the service cost and outside of operating income. These components are not eligible for capitalization in assets. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The amendment is to be applied retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations and disclosures.



In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting, which clarifies when changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as modifications. Modification guidance must be applied if the fair value, vesting conditions or classification of the awards changes. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2019. The amendment is to be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which amends the hedge accounting model in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 815 to enable entities to better portray the economics of their risk management activities in the financial statements and enhance the transparency and understandability of hedge results. The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. The amendment is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, with early adoption permitted. We have not yet evaluated the impact the adoption of this guidance may have on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures.



8

In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which provides an option to reclassify stranded tax effects within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) to retained earnings due to the lower U.S. corporate tax rate in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020. The amendment is to be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Act is recognized. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures. 



Adopted



In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which modifies existing requirements regarding measuring inventory at the lower of cost or market. Under current inventory standards, the market value requires consideration of replacement cost, net realizable value and net realizable value less an approximately normal profit margin. The new guidance replaces market with net realizable value defined as estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. This eliminates the need to determine and consider replacement cost or net realizable value less an approximately normal profit margin when measuring inventory. We adopted the new standard on a prospective basis for the annual period ending September 29, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures. 



In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify certain aspects of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including modifications to the accounting for income taxes upon vesting or settlement of awards, employer tax withholding on share-based compensation, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures. We adopted the new standard for the annual period ending September 29, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period. Certain aspects of the amendment were applied using a retrospective transition method, while others were applied prospectively. The adoption of this standard resulted in an increase in cash flows from operating activities and a decrease of cash flows from financing activities of $208 for fiscal year 2017 and $187 for fiscal year 2016 for the reclassification from financing activities to operating activities of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Additionally, we elected to modify our accounting policy for forfeitures on stock-based awards to record forfeitures when the forfeiture occurs instead of recording stock-based compensation expense based on an estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures for fiscal year 2018.



In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which provides guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments with the objective of reducing diversity in practice. We early adopted the new standard on a retrospective basis for the annual period ending September 29, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our current or prior year financial condition, results of operations or disclosures. 



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business, which changes the definition of a business to assist entities with evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. The new guidance clarifies that a business must also include at least one substantive process and narrows the definition of outputs by more closely aligning it with how outputs are described in ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. We early adopted the new standard on a prospective basis for the annual period ending September 29, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our financial condition, results of operations or disclosures, as the standard only applies to transactions occurring subsequent to adoption.



In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-05, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), which incorporates various SEC paragraphs from SAB 118 into income tax accounting guidance effective immediately. The SEC issued the interpretive guidance in SAB 118 on December 22, 2017 concurrent with the enactment of the Tax Act to clarify accounting and disclosure requirements. Pursuant to SAB 118, we recognized the estimated income tax effects of the Tax Act in our consolidated financial statements for all interim periods in our current fiscal year ending September 29, 2018. We adopted the new standard for the interim period ended March 31, 2018. See Note 11 for disclosure of the impact the adoption of this guidance on our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal year 2018.



9

NOTE 3 INVENTORIES 



Inventories consist of material, labor and overhead costs and are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value determined under the first-in, first-out accounting method. Certain inventories are measured using the weighted average cost method. Inventories, net are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 4 WARRANTY OBLIGATIONS 



Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts. For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms. Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase. Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty. 



Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials. We reserve the right to reject warranty claims where it is determined that failure is due to normal wear, customer modifications, improper maintenance or misuse. We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue. The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period. Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy. Warranty provisions are also recognized for certain unanticipated product claims that are individually significant.



Changes to accrued warranty costs are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 5 CAPITAL ASSETS 



Property and Equipment



Property and equipment, net are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Assets held under capital leases, consisting of machinery and equipment, are recorded at the present value of minimum lease payments and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset or the lease term. Amortization of assets held as capital leases is included in depreciation expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 



10

Goodwill



Changes to the carrying amount of goodwill are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Intangible Assets



Intangible assets are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Amortization expense recognized is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11

Estimated future amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets is as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Future amortization amounts presented above are estimates. Actual future amortization expense may be different due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, future acquisitions, impairments, changes in amortization periods or other factors.



NOTE 6 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS



In determining the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, we currently utilize market data or other assumptions that we believe market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability in the principal or most advantageous market and adjust for non-performance and/or other risk associated with the company as well as counterparties, as appropriate. When considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the following fair value hierarchy distinguishes between observable and unobservable inputs, which are categorized in one of the following levels:



•Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices which are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities accessible to us at the measurement date.



•Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.



•Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date.



The hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1, as this level provides the most reliable measure of fair value, while giving the lowest priority to Level 3. 



12

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



Financial assets and liabilities subject to fair value measurements on a recurring basis are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments. Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.



2 Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates. Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.



Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis



We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment. These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation. Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside. In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value. Fair value measurements of reporting units are estimated using an income approach involving discounted or undiscounted cash flow models that contain certain Level 3 inputs requiring management judgment, including projections of economic conditions and customer demand, revenue and margins, changes in competition, operating costs, working capital requirements and new product introductions. Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed. Fair value measurements associated with our intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment are estimated when events or changes in circumstances such as market value, asset utilization, physical change, legal factors or other matters indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. See Note 5 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.



Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value



Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate. These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.



13

Other Financial Instruments



Other financial instruments subject to fair value measurements include debt, which is recorded at carrying value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The carrying amount and estimated fair value of our debt is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 The fair value of the 8.75% tangible equity units (TEUs) is based on the most recently quoted price for the outstanding securities, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of these long-term obligations is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 12 for additional information on the TEUs.



2 The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value. The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange. See Note 8 for additional information on debt instruments.



NOTE 7 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 



Our currency exchange contracts and interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and qualify as hedging instruments. We also have derivatives which are not designated as cash flow hedges and, therefore, are accounted for and reported under foreign currency guidance. Regardless of designation for accounting purposes, we believe all of our derivative instruments are hedges of transactional risk exposures. The fair value of our outstanding designated and undesignated derivative assets and liabilities are reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



A reconciliation of the net fair value of designated hedge derivatives subject to master netting arrangements that are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets to the net fair value that could have been reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



1 Net fair value of designated hedge derivatives that could have been reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.



Cash Flow Hedging – Currency Risks



Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges. Qualifying gains and losses related to changes in the market value of these contracts are reported as a component of AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the underlying hedged transaction affects earnings. The effective portion of the cash flow hedges represents the change in fair value of the hedge that offsets the change in the functional currency value of the hedged item. We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. Subsequent changes in the market value of ineffective currency exchange contracts are recognized as an increase or decrease in revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income as that is the same line item in which the underlying hedged transaction is reported. 



As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $43,200 and $29,136, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $32,226 and $24,093 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $617, consisting of $731 in assets and $114 in liabilities. As of September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net liability of $478, consisting of $73 in assets and $551 in liabilities.



15

The pretax amounts recognized in AOCI on currency exchange contracts, including (gains) losses reclassified into earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Income and gains (losses) recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI), are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The amount recognized in earnings as a result of the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges was $5 and $10 in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $0 and $7 in the three and nine months ended July 1, 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $552. The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of June 30, 2018 was 1.6 years.



Interest Rate Swaps



On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility. The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $255,000 as of June 30, 2018. The interest rate swap agreement expires April 3, 2021. As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR. The market value of the interest rate swap as of June 30, 2018 was an asset of $7,354. The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.



The pretax amounts recognized in AOCI on interest rate swaps, including (gains) losses reclassified into earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Income and gains (losses) recognized in OCI, are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of June 30, 2018, the amount projected to be reclassified from AOCI into earnings in the next 12 months was a net gain of $2,821.



Foreign Currency Balance Sheet Derivatives



We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies. The gains and losses related to the changes in the market value of these derivative contracts are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 



As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $77,464 and $52,208, respectively. Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 was $27,171 and $14,762, respectively. As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net asset of $246 and $77, respectively. 



The net gain (loss) recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income on foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



16

NOTE 8 FINANCING



Long-term debt consists of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 See Note 12 for additional information on our TEUs issued in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Tranche B Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility



We have a credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank USA, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $120,000 revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) which expires on July 5, 2021 and a $460,000 tranche B term loan facility (the Term Facility) which expires on July 5, 2023. The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be drawn upon to refinance existing indebtedness and for working capital and other general corporate purposes up to a maximum of $120,000. The proceeds of the Term Facility were used for financing the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB) in fiscal year 2016. The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount.



The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowing (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowing (each as defined in the Credit Agreement). ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The ABR is defined as the greater of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day, (b) the New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus ½ of 1.00%, or (c) the Adjusted LIBOR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for a one-month interest period in dollars on such day plus 1.00%. The ABR for ABR Term Loans shall not be less than 1.75% per annum. The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date. As of June 30, 2018, the Applicable Rate for ABR Term Loans was 2.25% per annum.



Eurocurrency Borrowings made under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Rate. The Adjusted LIBOR Rate is defined as an interest rate per annum equal to (a) the LIBOR Rate for such interest period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement). The Applicable Rate for any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan is based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date. The Adjusted LIBOR Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans shall not be less than 0.75% per annum. Based on our leverage ratio as of June 30, 2018, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Revolving Loans was 3.00%. As of June 30, 2018, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans was 3.25% per annum, plus the applicable Adjusted LIBOR Rate of 2.09%. The weighted average interest rate on Term Facility debt during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was 4.84%.



17

As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $26,366 and $37,811 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, leaving approximately $93,634 and $82,189, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity. Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio. During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, commitment fees incurred totaled $94 and $250, respectively. During the three and nine months ended July 1, 2017, commitment fees incurred totaled $106 and $320, respectively. 



The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the Company's annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement. We may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Term Facility at any time without premium or penalty. All obligations under the Credit Agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of the Company's existing wholly owned domestic subsidiaries, and are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiary guarantors. 



Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults). The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense. These covenants restrict our ability to purchase outstanding shares of our common stock. As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 



See Note 6 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.



Interest Rate Swaps



On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap. See Note 7 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.



The interest rate swap will be reduced to the following notional amounts over the next four years:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 9 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION



We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors. As of June 30, 2018, a total of 1,258 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan. 



We make an annual stock grant under the 2017 Plan of stock options, restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units, as well as stock grants throughout the fiscal year. For fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, the annual stock grant occurred in April 2018, April 2017 and December 2015, respectively.



In fiscal year 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. See Note 2 for additional information regarding the impact of adoption. 



Stock Options



There were 245 and 288 stock options granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017. The weighted average fair value of the stock options granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 was $11.10 and $8.91, respectively.



18

Restricted Stock Units and Performance Restricted Stock Units



We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, we granted approximately 109 restricted stock units and 29 performance restricted stock units and 118 restricted stock units and 35 performance restricted stock units to directors, officers and employees, respectively. The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 was $49.63 and $45.00, respectively, representing the market value of our shares at the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period. 



Employee Stock Purchase Plan



Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders. As of June 30, 2018, a total of 615 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, we issued 24 and 25 shares, respectively, of our common stock for a single closed purchase period to participants under the 2012 ESPP at a weighted average price per share of $44.39 and $40.49, respectively.



NOTE 10 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS



We sponsor a non-contributory, defined benefit retirement plan for eligible employees of one of our German subsidiaries. Net periodic benefit cost for our defined benefit pension plan includes the following components:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each of the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 was 5.5%.



NOTE 11 INCOME TAXES



The income tax benefit for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 included certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act enacted into law on December 22, 2017. The discrete benefits primarily related to $32,264 of estimated benefit from the remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,886 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax. Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to higher earnings before taxes, partially offset by the lower U.S. corporate tax rate under the Tax Act. 



In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-05 which incorporates various SEC paragraphs from SAB 118 into income tax accounting guidance effective immediately, allowing registrants to record provisional amounts during a one-year measurement period. The updated guidance summarizes a three-step process to be applied at each reporting period to account for and qualitatively disclose: (i) the effects of the change in tax law for which accounting is complete; (ii) provisional amounts (or adjustments to provisional amounts) for the effects of the tax law where accounting is not complete, but that a reasonable estimate has been determined; and (iii) if a reasonable estimate cannot yet be made and therefore taxes are reflected in accordance with law prior to the enactment of the Tax Act. See Note 2 for additional information on the adoption of this guidance.



Amounts recorded where the accounting is complete during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 primarily relate to the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21%. We recorded an income tax benefit of $32,244 to remeasure deferred tax liabilities associated with intangible assets that will reverse at the new 21% rate. 



Amounts recorded where the accounting is provisional during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 include the remeasurement of other deferred taxes where the timing of the reversal cannot be known at this time. We have performed a provisional estimate of the net impact of remeasurement of other deferred tax assets and liabilities and recorded a $20 income tax benefit during the nine months ended June 30, 2018. In addition, the Tax Act includes a one-time mandatory repatriation transition tax on the net accumulated earnings and profits of our foreign subsidiaries. We have performed a provisional estimate of this tax and recorded 



19

a $6,886 income tax provision during the nine months ended June 30, 2018. The provisional amounts are based on information available at this time and may change due to a variety of factors, including, among others, anticipated guidance from the U.S. Department of Treasury about implementing the Tax Act and management's further assessment of the Tax Act and related regulatory guidance.



We have completed our initial analysis of the impact of all provisions of the Tax Act expected to be effective in fiscal year 2018, and there are no anticipated effects of the Tax Act where we have not yet recorded a provisional estimate of the accounting effect as of June 30, 2018.



The full-year estimated annual effective tax rate, which excludes the impact of discrete items, was 17.3% as of June 30, 2018, as compared to 11.6% as of July 1, 2017. This increase is primarily due to higher earnings before taxes, partially offset by the reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate from 35.0% to 24.5%, a blended rate based upon our fiscal year.



The income tax benefit for the three and nine months ended July 1, 2017 included certain discrete benefits of $2,801 recognized during the three months ended July 1, 2017 which consisted of additional U.S. tax benefits for prior fiscal years associated with domestic manufacturing, deductible PCB acquisition-related expenses and U.S. R&D tax credit.



As of June 30, 2018, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $6,119, of which $3,531 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized. As of September 30, 2017, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $5,849, of which $3,234 would favorably affect our effective tax rate, if recognized. As of June 30, 2018, we do not expect significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.



NOTE 12 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



Tangible Equity Units



During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses. Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926. Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019. We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU. The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt will be amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three-year term of the instrument.



The aggregate values assigned upon issuance to each component of the TEUs, based on the relative fair value of the respective components, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.



2 Other expenses include direct and incremental costs related to the issuance of the TEUs.



Equity Component



Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract will automatically settle on July 1, 2019. If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract. On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.



20

The number of shares of our common stock issuable upon settlement of each purchase contract on July 1, 2019 will be determined as follows: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs. There were 677 units of the equity component of TEUs outstanding as of both June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017. 



Debt Component



The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386 or $23.8136 per TEU. Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note will be paid, which in the aggregate will be equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU. Each installment will constitute a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal. 



Earnings Per Common Share



The TEUs have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding. The 0.3969 difference between the minimum shares and the 2.3810 maximum shares are potentially dilutive, and accordingly, are included in our diluted earnings per share on a pro rata basis to the extent the applicable market value is higher than the reference price but less than the threshold appreciation price. See Note 13 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.



Capped Calls



In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019. The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration). During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we settled approximately 10% of the Capped Calls, which resulted in us receiving and retiring 12 shares of our common stock. During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, no Capped Calls were settled.



On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls. Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls are for 2,054 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $57.97. The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.



As of June 30, 2018, the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, which will be realized if the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements is at or below $50.40 or at $57.97, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration. 



NOTE 13 EARNINGS PER SHARE 



Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period. The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share. 



21

Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants. The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period. For diluted earnings per share, the TEUs are assumed to be settled at a conversion factor based on our daily volume-weighted average price per share of our common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days preceding the end of the current fiscal quarter not to exceed 2.3810 shares of common stock per TEU.



Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding, or anti-dilution. As a result, stock options to acquire 667 and 813 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. Stock options to acquire 548 and 702 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.



In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased Capped Calls. The Capped Calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they will lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding, or anti-dilution. See Note 12 for additional information on our equity instruments.



Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 14 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments. 



Income tax expense or benefit allocated to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



22

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The changes in the net of tax balances of each component of AOCI are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



23

The effect on certain line items in the Consolidated Statements of Income of amounts reclassified out of AOCI are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NOTE 15 BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION 



Our Chief Executive Officer (the Chief Operating Decision Maker) regularly reviews financial information for our two operating segments, Test and Sensors. Test provides testing equipment, systems and services to the ground vehicles, materials and structures sectors. Sensors provides high performance sensors for acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure and force measurement. 



In evaluating each segment's performance, our Chief Executive Officer focuses on income from operations. This measure excludes interest income and expense, income taxes and other non-operating items. Corporate expenses, including costs associated with various support functions such as human resources, information technology, legal, finance and accounting, and general and administrative costs, are allocated to the reportable segments on the basis of revenue. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. 



The acquisition of PCB in fiscal year 2016 generated new opportunities to sell between our operating segments. Intersegment revenue is based on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the reportable segments. All significant intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial results. 



24

Financial information by reportable segment is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 16 RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED COSTS



Fiscal Year 2017 Restructuring



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives. These actions include the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner in fiscal year 2018. As a result, in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded $715 and $1,129 of pre-tax severance and related expense, respectively, and $24 and $211 of pre-tax facility closure costs, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, we have incurred a total of $4,262 of pre-tax expense, including $4,028 and $234 of pre-tax expense related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively. For our fiscal year ending September 29, 2018, we expect to incur total expense of approximately $2,000 related to these restructuring actions. The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in the first half of fiscal year 2019. 



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, in an effort to reduce costs and create economic efficiencies in Sensors, we initiated plans to close our Machida, Japan sales office in the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. In the three months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded an immaterial adjustment to the severance and related expense reported in previous periods. In the nine months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded $3 of pre-tax severance and related expense. As of June 30, 2018, we have incurred a total of $133 of pre-tax severance and related expense. We expect to incur additional pre-tax severance and related expense of approximately $40. The majority of the expenses are expected to be paid in fiscal year 2018 and the first half of fiscal year 2019. 



Fiscal Year 2016 Restructuring



During fiscal year 2016, we initiated plans to reduce costs in Sensors by closing our Machida, Japan manufacturing facility in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. We recorded no restructuring expenses in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and $92 and $1,036 in the three and nine months ended July 1, 2017, respectively. As of June 30, 2018, we have incurred a total of $1,964 of pre-tax expense, including $1,444 and $520 related to severance and facility closure costs, respectively. The remaining severance and facility closing costs are expected to be paid during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. 



Fiscal Year 2014 Restructuring



During fiscal year 2014, we initiated workforce and other cost reduction actions at certain of our Test locations in the U.S. and Europe. No restructuring expenses were recognized during the three or nine months ended June 30, 2018 or July 1, 2017 related to these restructuring actions.



25

Restructuring expenses included in our Consolidated Statements of Income for all restructuring actions are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restructuring expense accruals included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for all restructuring actions are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restructuring expense accruals included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



26

