PART II – OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings



We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings from time-to-time arising from the normal course of business. We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition.



Item 1A. Risk Factors



A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017. The information below includes additional risks relating to the transfer of certain Test segment production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner and the enactment of U.S. federal income tax legislation, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act). The risks described below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.



The transfer of certain Test production operations in China to our new contract manufacturing partner may be subject to delays, increased costs or other unanticipated consequences. 



On March 13, 2018, we announced workforce reductions and manufacturing facility closures in our Test segment corresponding to the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner. These changes are designed to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in growth initiatives. We can make no assurances that our current estimates of costs and timing of this restructuring action will be accurate or that additional costs will not be incurred as we continue the restructuring action. Any differences from our current estimates could be material and could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations through delays in our timeline or increased costs. For further information on restructuring actions, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 



While we believe our China contract manufacturing partner to be qualified to manufacture our Test segment products, we may need to address short-term quality and delivery issues. We have not previously used contract manufacturing partners on a large scale. Significant quality or delivery schedule concerns and unforeseen costs might adversely affect our relationships with customers and our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. 



The final impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be materially different from our current estimates.



The Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The new law made numerous changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law and is expected to reduce our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 and future periods. Effective January 1, 2018, the Tax Act lowers the U.S. corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% and prompts various other changes to U.S. federal corporate tax law, including the establishment of a territorial-style system for taxing foreign-source income of domestic multinational corporations. The tax benefit recorded for the six months ended March 31, 2018 involves significant judgment and assumptions as to the impact of the Tax Act. Our estimated impact of the new law is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions. Recognized impacts could be materially different from current estimates based on our actual results in fiscal year 2018. We expect to record any adjustments within one year of the enactment of the Tax Act in accordance with the guidance provided in Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-05, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SAB 118), and these adjustments could be material. The full impact of the Tax Act on our business, operations and financial statements cannot be predicted at this time, and we make no assurances in this regard. 



40

Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



The following table presents repurchases of our equity securities we made during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We purchase common stock from time-to-time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued as equity for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations. 



Share Purchase Plan



Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a 2,000 share purchase authorization. Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management. The share purchase authorization has no expiration date. We made no share purchases during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. As of March 31, 2018, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.



Capped Calls



In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2018, we did not settle any of the Capped Calls. As of March 31, 2018 the range of shares of our common stock to be received under the outstanding Capped Calls was 0 to 293 shares, subject to market conditions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.



41

Item 6. Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



42

