PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information set forth above under Part I, Item 1, Note 11 “Commitments and Contingencies” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.



ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS



A description of risks associated with our business, financial condition and results of our operations is set forth in Item 1A - Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, which is incorporated herein by reference. 



ITEM 2: UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



On July 20, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of the Company's common stock. The stock repurchase authorization did not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity depended on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. The Company's prior repurchase authorization was cancelled and superseded by this repurchase authorization.



On October 30, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of the Company’s common stock. This stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of repurchase activity will depend on factors such as current stock price, levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements, and other factors. The Company’s prior repurchase authorization was cancelled and superseded by this new repurchase authorization.



The following table summarizes the activity related to stock repurchases for the three months ended March 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2019, the Company repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of its common stock for approximately $117.0 million. As of March 30, 2019, the Company had remaining authorization of $1.2 billion for future share repurchases. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such repurchases will be based on several factors, including the price of the Company’s common stock and general market and business conditions.



ITEM 3: DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



Not applicable. 



ITEM 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5: OTHER INFORMATION



None.



 33



ITEM 6: EXHIBITS



(a) Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Filed or furnished herewith. 



In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL-related information in Exhibit 101 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act, is deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.



 34



