Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Any statements contained herein regarding our future financial performance, operations or other matters (including, without limitation, statements to the effect that we “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend to,” “may,” “will,” “project,” “anticipate,” “continue,” “are encouraged by,” or “estimate”; statements of “goals” or “visions”; or other variations thereof or comparable terminology or the negative thereof) should be considered forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors, including those set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” beginning on page 46, and in the discussion below. Readers are also encouraged to refer to the documents regularly filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, for further discussion of our business and the risks attendant thereto. 



Overview 



For more than 40 years, National Instruments Corporation (the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) has enabled engineers and scientists around the world to accelerate productivity, innovation and discovery. Our software-centric platform provides an advanced approach through integration of software and modular hardware to create automated test and automated measurement systems. We believe our long-term track record of innovation and our differentiated platform help support the success of our customers, employees, suppliers and stockholders. We have been profitable in every year since 1990. We sell to a large number of customers in a wide variety of industries. 



The key strategies that we focus on in running our business are the following: 



Expanding our broad customer base 



We strive to increase our already broad customer base and to grow our large order business by serving a large market on many computer platforms, through a global marketing and distribution network. We also seek to acquire new technologies and expertise from time to time to open new opportunities for our existing product portfolio. 



Maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction 



To maintain a high level of customer satisfaction we strive to offer innovative, modular and integrated products through a global sales and support network. We strive to maintain a high degree of backwards compatibility across different platforms to preserve the customer’s investment in our products. In this time of intense global competition, we believe that it is crucial that we continue to offer products with high quality and reliability, and that our products provide cost-effective solutions for our customers. 



Leveraging external and internal technology 



Our product strategy is to provide superior products by leveraging generally available technology, supporting open architectures on multiple platforms and leveraging our core technologies across multiple products.



We sell automated test and automated measurement systems in a broad range of industries and are subject to the economic and industry forces that drive those markets. It has been our experience that the performance of these industries and our performance are impacted by general trends in industrial production for the global economy and by the specific performance of certain vertical markets that are intensive consumers of measurement technologies. Examples of these markets are advanced research, automotive, automated test equipment, commercial aerospace, computers and electronics, consumer electronics, continuous process manufacturing, education, government/defense, medical research/pharmaceutical, power/energy, semiconductors, and telecommunications.



33



Leveraging a worldwide sales, distribution and manufacturing network 



We distribute and sell our software and hardware products primarily through a direct sales organization. We also use independent distributors, original equipment manufacturers, value-added resellers, system integrators, and consultants to market and sell our products. We have sales offices in the U.S. and sales offices and distributors in key international markets. Sales outside of the Americas accounted for approximately 61% and 62% of our net sales during the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and approximately 61% and 62% of our net sales during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The vast majority of our foreign sales are denominated in the customers’ local currency, which exposes us to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We expect that a significant portion of our total net sales will continue to be derived from international sales. (See Note 2 - Revenue of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details concerning the geographic breakdown of our net sales).



We manufacture substantially all of our product volume at our facilities in Debrecen, Hungary and Penang, Malaysia. Our product manufacturing operations can be divided into four areas: electronic circuit card and module assembly; chassis and cable assembly; technical manuals and product support documentation; and software duplication. Most of our electronic circuit card assemblies, modules and chassis are manufactured in house, although contractors are used from time to time. The majority of our electronic cable assemblies are produced by contractors; however, we do manufacture some on an exception basis. Our software duplication, technical manuals and product support documentation are primarily produced by contractors. 



Delivering high quality, reliable products



We believe that our long-term growth and success depend on delivering high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. Accordingly, we focus significant efforts on research and development. We focus our research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and developing new products that incorporate appropriate features and functionality to be competitive with respect to technology, price and performance. Our success also depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other proprietary rights related to technologies used in our products. We have engaged in litigation and where necessary, will likely engage in future litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. In monitoring and policing our intellectual property rights, we have been and may be required to spend significant resources.



Our operating results fluctuate from period to period due to changes in global economic conditions and a number of other factors. As a result, we believe our historical results of operations should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. There can be no assurance that our net sales will grow, or not decline, or that we will remain profitable in future periods. 



Current business outlook 



Many of the industries we serve have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. In assessing our business, we consider the trends in the Global Purchasing Managers’ Index (“PMI”), global industrial production as well as industry reports on the specific vertical industries that we target. Historically, our business cycles have generally followed the expansion and contraction cycles in the global industrial economy as measured by the Global PMI. For the three months ended June 30, 2019, the average of the Global PMI was 49.9 and the average of the new order element of the Global PMI was 49.5. A Global PMI of 50.0 is a neutral rating, a number greater than 50.0 is indicative of expansion and a number less than 50.0 is indicative of contraction. 



In the past, we have seen deterioration in the industrial economy translate to a negative impact on our net sales. Additionally, we continue to face unexpected headwinds related to increased trade restrictions impacting sales to certain third parties and softening demand for some of our broad-based product offerings and certain applications within the transportation market. These factors could contribute to an adverse effect on the spending patterns of businesses, including our current and potential customers, which could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Although we remain cautious about economic uncertainty indicated by these headwinds along with the continued weakening of the PMI, particularly in the Eurozone, we are encouraged by our continuing commitment to disciplined execution of our long-term goals. Additionally, we remain optimistic about our strategic objectives for the company and our long-term position in the industry through the sustained differentiation we deliver to our customers through our platform-based approach. 



Since the first quarter of 2017, we have been taking steps to optimize our processes, reduce job duplication, evaluate where we should shift and centralize activities, improve efficiencies, and rebalance our resources on higher return activities. We incurred $3 million in severance and other restructuring-related charges, net of tax during the three months ended June 30, 2019. The timing and scope of any future headcount reductions will vary.



34



During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we saw continued volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and many of the currency markets where we have exposure. This volatility had a material negative impact on our net sales and results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. As of the date of this filing, the U.S. dollar index, as tracked by the St. Louis Federal Reserve, remains near its ten-year high. See “Results of Operations” below for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange rates on our business for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. See “Our Revenues are Subject to Seasonal Variations” under “Risk Factors” for additional discussion of potential fluctuations in our net sales. 



We have hedging programs in place to help mitigate the risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. However, there can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in the foreign currency markets in which we do business. (See Note 5 – Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details concerning our hedging programs.)



Results of Operations 



The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of net sales represented by certain items reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Figures may not sum due to rounding.



35



Results of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018



Net Sales. The following table sets forth our net sales for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Figures may not sum due to rounding.



Orders with a value greater than $20,000 decreased by 2% year over year during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the year over year increase of 16% in the three months ended June 30, 2018. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, orders with a value greater than $20,000 increased by 1% year over year compared to the year over year increase of 11% in the six months ended June 30, 2018. 



The slight decrease in our net sales was primarily related to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and softening demand for some of our broad-based product offerings and certain applications within the transportation market. Additionally, although orders with a value greater than $20,000 were relatively flat during the first six months of 2019, we continued to experience increased adoption of our semiconductor development and test applications.



During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, orders over $20,000 were 59% and 58% of our total orders, respectively, and for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, these orders were 59% and 57% of our total orders, respectively. Orders with a value greater than $20,000, particularly those orders with a value greater than $100,000, are more volatile, are subject to greater discount variability, and may contract at a faster pace during an economic downturn compared to our other orders.



The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Figures may not sum due to rounding.



36



We expect sales outside of the Americas to continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales. We intend to continue to expand our international operations by increasing our presence in existing markets, adding a presence in some new geographical markets and continuing the use of distributors to sell our products in some countries. Almost all of the sales made by our direct sales offices in the Americas (excluding the U.S.), EMEIA, and APAC are denominated in local currencies, and accordingly, the U.S. dollar equivalent of these sales is affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effects of foreign currency fluctuations between periods, we compare the percentage change in our results from period to period using constant currency disclosure. To calculate the change in constant currency, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the average rates in effect during the three and six months ended June 30, 2018). The following tables present this information, along with the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on sales denominated in local currencies, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Figures may not sum due to rounding.



To help protect against changes in U.S. dollar equivalent value caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales, we maintain a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $2.7 million and decreasing our net sales by $1.3 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our net sales by $4.4 million and decreasing our net sales by $3.9 million, respectively. (See Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2019 and 2018). 



37



Gross Profit. Our gross profit as a percentage of sales is impacted by many factors including changes in the amount of revenues from our large customers and changes in the foreign currency exchange markets. We continue to focus on cost control and cost reduction measures throughout our manufacturing cycle. The following table sets forth our gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of net sales for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 along with the percentage changes in gross profit for the corresponding periods.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decreases in our gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of net sales for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same periods in 2018 are primarily attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the change in exchange rates had the effect of decreasing our cost of sales by $1.6 million and increasing our cost of sales by $2.0 million, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the change in exchange rates had the effect of decreasing our cost of sales by $2.9 million and increasing our cost of sales by $3.9 million, respectively. To help protect against changes in our cost of sales caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows, we have a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted costs of sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our cost of sales by $0.1 million and decreasing our cost of sales by $0.3 million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, these hedges had the effect of increasing our cost of sales by $0.0 million and decreasing our cost of sales by $0.6 million, respectively. (See Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our cost of sales for 2019 and 2018).



We do not typically maintain a large amount of order backlog as orders typically translate to sales quickly. As such, any weakness in orders typically has a pronounced impact on our net sales in the short term.



Operating Expenses. The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



38



The year over year decrease in our operating expenses during the three months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily related to the following:



•$5 million decrease related to the year over year impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates;



•$4 million increase due to additional stock-based compensation expense, primarily attributable to comparatively 



higher share prices on the grant date of unvested RSU awards;



•$3 million decrease in marketing and outside service costs;



•$1 million increase in our research and development expenses, primarily attributable to a decrease in our software



development costs eligible for capitalization, as described in more detail below.



The year over year decrease in our operating expenses during the six months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily related to the following:



•$9 million decrease related to the year over year impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates;



•$7 million increase due to additional stock-based compensation expense, primarily attributable to



comparatively higher share prices on the grant date of unvested RSU awards;



•$6 million increase in our research and development expenses, primarily attributable to a decrease in our



software development costs eligible for capitalization, as described in more detail below;



•$4 million decrease in personnel costs, primarily attributable to a decrease in variable compensation costs;



•$1 million decrease in marketing and outside service costs.



In the three months ended June 30, 2019, we capitalized $2.2 million of software development costs compared to $3.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2018. In the second quarter of 2018, we began moving toward more frequent releases for many of our software products. Specifically, for many of our software development projects we started applying agile development methodologies which are characterized by a more dynamic development process with more frequent and iterative revisions to a product release's features and functions as the software is being developed. Due to the shorter development cycle and focus on rapid production associated with agile development, we expect that for a significant majority of our software development projects the costs incurred subsequent to the achievement of technological feasibility will be immaterial in future periods and we expect to record significantly less capitalized software development costs than under our historical software development approaches. Consequently, a larger portion of our software development expenditures have been recognized as operating expenses starting in the second quarter of 2018. We also expect amortization of previously capitalized software development costs will begin to steadily decline as previously capitalized software development costs become fully amortized over the next four years.



We believe that our long-term growth and success depends on developing high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. We are focused on leveraging recent investments in research and development and in our field sales force and taking actions to help ensure that those resources are concentrated in areas and on initiatives that will contribute to future growth in our business. 



Operating Income. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, operating income was $32 million and $37 million, respectively, a decrease of 13%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 9.7% and 10.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, operating income was $56 million and $65 million, respectively, a decrease of 14%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 8.6% and 10.0% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decreases in operating income in absolute dollars for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018, and for the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the six months ended June 30, 2018, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.



Interest Income.  For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, interest income was $2.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, interest income was $4.3 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Recently we have seen moderate declines to the yields for high quality investment alternatives that comply with our corporate investment policy which could negatively impact the amount of interest income from our investment portfolio for the remainder of 2019. 



39



Net Foreign Exchange Loss.  For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, net foreign exchange loss was $(1.6) million and $(2.1) million, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, net foreign exchange loss was $(1.2) million and $(1.1) million, respectively. These results are attributable to movements in the foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in subsidiaries for which our functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. During the first half of 2019, we saw continued volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and many of the currency markets where we have exposure. In the past, we have noted that volatility in the foreign currency exchange markets in which we do business has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments, on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent net sales and expenses and on the effectiveness of our hedging programs. We cannot predict to what degree foreign currency markets will fluctuate in the future. In the past, these dynamics have also adversely affected our net sales growth in international markets and may pose similar challenges in the future. We recognize the local currency as the functional currency in virtually all of our international subsidiaries. See “Results of Operations - Net Sales” above for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange rates on our net sales of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019.



We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated net foreign currency balance sheet positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. We typically hedge up to 90% of our outstanding foreign denominated net receivable or payable positions and typically limit the duration of these foreign currency forward contracts to approximately 90 days. The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange loss.” Our hedging strategy increased our foreign exchange loss by $(0.1) million and decreased our foreign exchange loss by $1.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively. Our hedging strategy increased our foreign exchange loss by $(0.4) million and increased our foreign exchange loss by $(0.2) million in the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (See Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of our derivative instruments and hedging activities).



Provision for Income Taxes. For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, our provision for income taxes reflected an effective tax rate of 13% and 11%, respectively. For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, our provision for income taxes reflected an effective tax rate of 12% and 14%, respectively. The factors that caused our effective tax rate to change year over year are detailed in the table below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



40



Other operational metrics 



We believe that the following additional unaudited operational metrics assist investors in assessing our operational performance relative to others in our industry and to our historical results. The following tables provide details with respect to the amount of GAAP charges related to stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition related intangibles, acquisition related transaction costs, restructuring charges, capitalization and amortization of internally developed software costs, and other items that were recorded in the line items indicated below (in thousands).



໿



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



໿



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



41



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Overview



At June 30, 2019, we had $440 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our cash and cash equivalent balances are held in numerous financial institutions throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the U.S., however, all of our short-term investments that are located outside of the U.S. are denominated in the U.S. dollar with the exception of $5 million U.S. dollar equivalent of corporate bonds that are denominated in Euro. The following table presents the geographic distribution of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of June 30, 2019 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table presents our working capital, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our principal sources of liquidity include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flows generated from our operations.



The primary driver of the net decrease in working capital between December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2019 was the $91 million decrease in total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. Additionally, other changes in working capital were related to:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



◦Prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $12 million which was primarily related to an increase in prepaid freight costs in addition to the timing of insurance and maintenance renewals.



◦Accrued compensation decreased by $6 million which can be attributed to a decrease in payments expected under our company profit sharing and bonus plans.



◦Accounts payable increased by $7 million, primarily due to the timing of payments for services. 



◦Accrued expenses and other liabilities decreased by $13 million due to the timing and amount of tax related payments. 



42



◦Operating lease liabilities, current. increased by $16 million which was entirely related to the adoption of the new leasing standard on January 1, 2019, as discussed in Note 1 - Basis of presentation and Note 8 - Leases.



◦Other taxes payable decreased by $2 million related to the timing of payments for VAT and other indirect taxes.



Analysis of Cash Flow



The following table summarizes our cash flow results for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $10 million compared to the same period in 2018. This decrease was primarily due to a $15 million decrease in operating assets and liabilities, which was partially offset due to a $7 million increase in stock-based compensation. 



Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2019 decreased by $109 million compared to the same period in 2018. This was primarily attributable to a net sale of short-term investments of $25 million compared to a net purchase of short-term investments of $90 million during the same period in 2018. Investing cash outflows related to capitalized software development decreased by $7 million compared to the same period in 2018 due to a decrease in development costs eligible for capitalization related to a recent shift for several of our software projects to a more iterative software development cycle. Due to this change in how we develop these software products, we expect the portion of software development expenditures that will be recognized as research and development expenses when incurred, and consequently, classified as operating cash flows, to increase in future periods. 



Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities increased by $97 million for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. This was primarily related to an increase of $92 million in cash outflows used to repurchase 2,149,598 shares of our common stock and a $5 million increase in cash outflows related to the increase in our quarterly dividend offset by a $1 million increase in proceeds from issuance of our common stock under our employee stock purchase plan.



Contractual Cash Obligations.  Information related to our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Contractual Obligations,” in Part II-Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC on February 21, 2019 (the “2018 Form 10-K”). At June 30, 2019, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations from those reported in our 2018 Form 10-K. See Note 8 - Leases for additional information regarding our non-cancellable operating lease obligations as of June 30, 2019.



Loan Agreement. As amended through April 27, 2018, the Loan Agreement provides for (i) a revolving line of credit of $5.0 million, (ii) a letter of credit sublimit under the line of credit of $5.0 million, and (iii) requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain of the affirmative and negative covenants under the Loan Agreement only if loans are outstanding under the Loan Agreement or if we have not reimbursed any drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Loan Agreement within five business days following the request of the Lender. Proceeds of loans made under the Loan Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may prepay the loans under the Loan Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Certain of our existing and future material domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations under the Loan Agreement. (See Note 13 – Debt of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our revolving line of credit).



43



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  We do not have any off-balance sheet debt. At June 30, 2019, we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we were engaged in such relationships. 



Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations as well as from the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, payment of dividends to our stockholders and repurchases of our common stock for at least the next 12 months. On June 25, 2019, we entered into an agreement to sell our 136,000 square foot office building and property located in Austin, TX. The expected proceeds from the sale are $33.6 million. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2019. Additionally, the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act allows us to repatriate our foreign cash for domestic needs without additional taxation. We may also seek to pursue additional financing or to raise additional funds by seeking an increase in our unsecured revolving line of credit under our Loan Agreement or selling equity or debt to the public or in private transactions from time to time. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.



Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our operating activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: 



•payment of dividends to our stockholders;



•repurchases of our common stock; 



•required levels of research and development and other operating costs;



•our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; 



•acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; 



•the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins;



•the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain;



•general economic and political uncertainty and specific conditions in the markets we address, including any volatility in the industrial economy in the various geographic regions in which we do business;



•the inability of certain of our customers who depend on credit to have access to their traditional sources of credit to finance the purchase of products from us, which may lead them to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us;



•capital improvements for facilities; 



•our relationships with suppliers and customers; and 



•the level of stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. 



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



See Note 1 – Basis of presentation in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 



44



