Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Any statements contained herein regarding our future financial performance, operations or other matters (including, without limitation, statements to the effect that we “believe,” "expect," "plan," "may," "will,” “intend to,” "project," “anticipate,” "continue," or "estimate" or other variations thereof or comparable terminology or the negative thereof) should be considered forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of important factors, including those set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” beginning on page 41, and in the discussion below. Readers are also encouraged to refer to the documents regularly filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, for further discussion of our business and the risks attendant thereto. 



Overview 



National Instruments Corporation (the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our”) designs, manufactures and sells systems to engineers and scientists that accelerate productivity, innovation and discovery. Our software-centric platform provides integrated software and modular hardware that speeds the development of systems needing measurement and control. We believe our long-term vision and focus on technology supports the success of our customers, employees, suppliers and stockholders. We sell to a large number of customers in a wide variety of industries. We have been profitable in every year since 1990. 



The key strategies that we focus on in running our business are the following: 



Expanding our broad customer base 



We strive to increase our already broad customer base and to grow our large order business by serving a large market on many computer platforms, through a global marketing and distribution network. We also seek to acquire new technologies and expertise from time to time to open new opportunities for our existing product portfolio. 



Maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction 



To maintain a high level of customer satisfaction we strive to offer innovative, modular and integrated products through a global sales and support network. We strive to maintain a high degree of backwards compatibility across different platforms to preserve the customer’s investment in our products. In this time of intense global competition, we believe that it is crucial that we continue to offer products with high quality and reliability, and that our products provide cost-effective solutions for our customers. 



Leveraging external and internal technology 



Our product strategy is to provide superior products by leveraging generally available technology, supporting open architectures on multiple platforms and leveraging our core technologies such as custom application specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”) across multiple products.



We sell into test and measurement and industrial/embedded applications in a broad range of industries and are subject to the economic and industry forces that drive those markets. It has been our experience that the performance of these industries and our performance are impacted by general trends in industrial production for the global economy and by the specific performance of certain vertical markets that are intensive consumers of measurement technologies. Examples of these markets are advanced research, automotive, automated test equipment, consumer electronics, commercial aerospace, computers and electronics, continuous process manufacturing, education, government/defense, medical research/pharmaceutical, power/energy, semiconductors, and telecommunications.



29



Leveraging a worldwide sales, distribution and manufacturing network 



We distribute and sell our software and hardware products primarily through a direct sales organization. We also use independent distributors, OEMs, VARs, system integrators, and consultants to market and sell our products. We have sales offices in the U.S. and sales offices and distributors in key international markets. Sales outside of the Americas accounted for approximately 62% and 61% of our net sales during the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The vast majority of our foreign sales are denominated in the customers’ local currency, which exposes us to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We expect that a significant portion of our total net sales will continue to be derived from international sales. (See “Note 12 – Segment and geographic information” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for details concerning the geographic breakdown of our net sales).



We manufacture substantially all of our product volume at our facilities in Debrecen, Hungary and Penang, Malaysia. Our product manufacturing operations can be divided into four areas: electronic circuit card and module assembly; chassis and cable assembly; technical manuals and product support documentation; and software duplication. Most of our electronic circuit card assemblies, modules and chassis are manufactured in house, although contractors are used from time to time. The majority of our electronic cable assemblies are produced by contractors; however, we do manufacture some on an exception basis. Our software duplication, technical manuals and product support documentation are primarily produced by contractors. 



Delivering high quality, reliable products



We believe that our long-term growth and success depend on delivering high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. Accordingly, we focus significant efforts on research and development. We focus our research and development efforts on enhancing existing products and developing new products that incorporate appropriate features and functionality to be competitive with respect to technology, price and performance. Our success also depends on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and other proprietary rights related to technologies used in our products. We have engaged in litigation and where necessary, will likely engage in future litigation to protect our intellectual property rights. In monitoring and policing our intellectual property rights, we have been and may be required to spend significant resources.



Our operating results fluctuate from period to period due to changes in global economic conditions and a number of other factors. As a result, we believe our historical results of operations should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. There can be no assurance that our net sales will grow or that we will remain profitable in future periods. 



Current business outlook 



Many of the industries we serve have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. In assessing our business, we consider the trends in the Global Purchasing Managers’ Index (“PMI”), global industrial production as well as industry reports on the specific vertical industries that we target. Historically, our business cycles have generally followed the expansion and contraction cycles in the global industrial economy as measured by the Global PMI. In the three month period ended March 31, 2018, the average of the Global PMI was 54.0 and the average of the new order element of the Global PMI was 54.8. Although these readings are indicative of expansion in the industrial sector we are unable to predict whether the industrial economy, as measured by the PMI, will remain above the neutral reading of 50, strengthen or contract during the remainder of 2018.



Since the first quarter of 2017 we have been taking steps to reduce our overall employee headcount in an effort to shift and centralize activities, improve efficiencies, and rebalance our resources on higher return activities. We expect to incur an additional $2 million to $3 million in severance and other restructuring-related charges, net of tax, by the end of 2018, most of which we expect to incur in the second quarter of 2018. 



We are optimistic about our long-term position in the industry through the sustained differentiation we deliver to our customers through our platform-based approach. In the first quarter of 2018, we saw a 2% year over year increase from orders under $20,000, a 10% year over year increase from orders between $20,000 and $100,000, and a 4% year over year increase from orders over $100,000. We continue to see growth in our orders above $20,000 which we believe reflects our focus on developing highly differentiated products, particularly for complex test and measurement systems.



During early 2018, we are continuing to see appreciation of the value of the local currency against the U.S. dollar in many of the currency markets where we do business, particularly the Euro and Chinese yuan. In addition, the broad based strength of the overall industrial economy and the PMI are encouraging. See “Results of Operations” below for additional discussion on the impact of foreign exchange rates on our business for the three month period ended March 31, 2018. See “Our Revenues are Subject to Seasonal Variations” under “Risk Factors” for additional discussion of potential fluctuations in our net sales. 



30



We have hedging programs in place to help mitigate the risks associated with foreign currency risks. However, there can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in the foreign currency markets in which we do business. (See “Note 5 – Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for additional details concerning hedging programs.)



Results of Operations 



The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of net sales represented by certain items reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Income: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Figures may not sum due to rounding.



31



Results of Operations for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 



Net Sales. The following table sets forth our net sales for the three month periods ending March 31, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Figures may not sum due to rounding.



Large orders, defined as orders with a value greater than $100,000, increased by 4% year over year during the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to the year over year increase of 17% in the three month period ended March 31, 2017. A significant factor in the continued expansion of our large orders in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was strong demand for data acquisition hardware in addition to strong software order growth, indicating broader adoption of our platform. Software growth was driven by higher seat counts in addition to increases in the annual software maintenance renewal price for many of our products. During the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, large orders were 24% and 25% of our total orders, respectively. Large orders are more volatile, are subject to greater discount variability and may contract at a faster pace during an economic downturn compared to our other orders.



The following table sets forth our net sales by geographic region for the three month period ending March 31, 2018 and 2017 along with the changes between the corresponding periods and the region’s percentage of total net sales.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Figures may not sum due to rounding.



32



We expect sales outside of the Americas to continue to represent a significant portion of our net sales. We intend to continue to expand our international operations by increasing our presence in existing markets, adding a presence in some new geographical markets and continuing the use of distributors to sell our products in some countries. Almost all of the sales made by our direct sales offices in the Americas (excluding the U.S.), EMEIA, and APAC are denominated in local currencies, and accordingly, the U.S. dollar equivalent of these sales is affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effects of foreign currency fluctuations between periods, we compare the percentage change in our results from period to period using constant currency disclosure. To calculate the change in constant currency, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the average rates in effect during the three month period ended March 31, 2017). The following table presents this information, along with the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on sales denominated in local currencies, for the three month period ended March 31, 2018.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Figures may not sum due to rounding.



To help protect against changes in U.S. dollar equivalent value caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales, we have instituted a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted net sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our net sales by $(2.6) million and increasing our net sales by $2.1 million, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our net sales for 2018 and 2017). 



We adopted the new revenue standard during the first quarter of 2018. Due to the timing of renewals for certain large subscription software arrangements, the impact of adopting the new revenue standard increased our net sales by approximately $6 million in the first quarter of 2018. We do not expect the adoption of the new revenue standard to have a significant impact on our net sales during the remainder of 2018. (See “Note 2 - Revenue” of Notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding the impact of the new revenue standard on our net sales for 2018). 



Gross Profit. Our gross profit as a percentage of sales is impacted by many factors including changes in the amount of revenues from our very large customers and changes in the foreign currency exchange markets. We continue to focus on cost control and cost reduction measures throughout our manufacturing cycle. The following table sets forth our gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of net sales for the three month periods ending March 31, 2018 and 2017 along with the percentage changes in gross profit for the corresponding periods.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



33



For the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our cost of sales by $2.0 million and decreasing our cost of sales by $(0.5) million, respectively. To help protect against changes in our cost of sales caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows, we have a foreign currency cash flow hedging program. We hedge portions of our forecasted costs of sales denominated in foreign currencies with average rate forward contracts. During the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, these hedges had the effect of decreasing our cost of sales by $0.3 million and increasing our cost of sales by $(0.6) million, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our cash flow hedging program and its related impact on our cost of sales for 2018 and 2017).



We do not typically maintain a large amount of order backlog as orders typically translate to sales quickly. As such, any weakness in orders typically has a pronounced impact on our net sales in the short term.



Operating Expenses. The following table sets forth our operating expenses for the three month periods ending March 31, 2018 and 2017 along with the percentage changes between the corresponding periods and the line item as a percentage of total net sales.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the three month period ending March 31, 2018, the year over year increase in operating expenses was primarily the result of the year over year change in exchange rates and a decrease in the capitalization of software development costs. The change in exchange rates had the effect of increasing our operating expenses by $6 million. Additionally, we capitalized $8 million of software development costs in the three month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to $12 million in the three month period ended March 31, 2017, which had the effect of increasing our operating expenses by $4 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in costs related to travel, marketing and outside services of $1.6 million compared to the three month period ending March 31, 2017. 



We believe that our long-term growth and success depends on developing high quality software and hardware products on a timely basis. We are focused on leveraging recent investments in research and development and in our field sales force and taking actions to help ensure that those resources are concentrated in areas and on initiatives that will contribute to future growth in our business. 



In the second quarter of 2018,we began moving toward more frequent releases for many of our software products. Specifically, we started applying agile development methodologies which are characterized by a more dynamic development process with more frequent and iterative revisions to a product release's features and functions as the software is being developed. Due to the shorter development cycle and focus on rapid production associated with agile development, we expect that for a significant majority of its software development projects the costs incurred subsequent to the achievement of technological feasibility will be immaterial in future periods and we expect to record significantly less capitalized software development costs than under our historical software development approaches. We also expect amortization of previously capitalized software development costs to steadily decline as previously capitalized software development costs become fully amortized over the next four years.



34



Operating Income. For the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, operating income was $28 million and $22 million, respectively, an increase of 26%. As a percentage of net sales, operating income was 9.0% and 7.4% for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increases in operating income in absolute dollars for the three month period ended March 31, 2018, compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2017, are attributable to the factors discussed in Net Sales, Gross Profit and Operating Expenses above.



Interest Income.  For the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, interest income was $1.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively. We are seeing improving yields for high quality investment alternatives that comply with our corporate investment policy. We expect yields in these types of investments to increase moderately during the remainder of 2018. 



Net Foreign Exchange Gain/(Loss).  For the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, net foreign exchange gain/(loss) was $1.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively. These results are attributable to movements in the foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in subsidiaries for which our functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. During the first quarter of 2018, we saw a decline in the value of the U.S. dollar in many of the currency markets where we have exposure which benefited our results of operations. As of the date of this filing, the U.S. dollar index, as tracked by the St. Louis Federal Reserve, remains above its ten-year average although it has declined by approximately 2% since December 31, 2017. In the past, we have noted that significant volatility in the foreign currency exchange markets in which we do business has had a significant impact on the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated firm commitments, on our ability to forecast our U.S. dollar equivalent net sales and expenses and on the effectiveness of our hedging programs. We cannot predict to what degree foreign currency markets will fluctuate in the future.In the past, these dynamics have also adversely affected our net sales growth in international markets and may pose similar challenges in the future. We recognize the local currency as the functional currency in virtually all of our international subsidiaries. 



We utilize foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our foreign denominated net foreign currency balance sheet positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates. We typically hedge up to 90% of our outstanding foreign denominated net receivable or payable positions and typically limit the duration of these foreign currency forward contracts to approximately 90 days. The gain or loss on these derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “Net foreign exchange gain.” Our hedging strategy decreased our foreign exchange gain by $(1.8) million and $(2.5) million in the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively. (See “Note 5 - Derivative instruments and hedging activities” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further description of our derivative instruments and hedging activities).



Provision for Income Taxes. For the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, our provision for income taxes reflected an effective tax rate of 18% and 22%, respectively. The factors that caused our effective tax rate to change year over year are detailed in the table below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Act reduced the US federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. As of March 31, 2018, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act. However, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax. We recognized a provisional amount of $69.9 million, which was included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations during the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. We will continue to make and refine our calculations as additional analysis is completed. For additional discussion about our income taxes including the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act see Note 9 - Income taxes of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



35



Other operational metrics 



We believe that the following additional unaudited operational metrics assist investors in assessing our operational performance relative to others in our industry and to our historical results. The following tables provide details with respect to the amount of GAAP charges related to stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, acquisition-related transaction costs, and restructuring charges that were recorded in the line items indicated below (in thousands).



໿



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



໿



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



36



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Overview



At March 31, 2018, we had $414.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Our cash and cash equivalent balances are held in numerous financial institutions throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the U.S., however, the majority of our short-term investments that are located outside of the U.S. are denominated in the U.S. dollar with the exception of $5.1 million U.S. dollar equivalent of corporate bonds that are denominated in Euro. The following table presents the geographic distribution of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of March 31, 2018 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table presents our working capital, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our principal sources of liquidity include cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, as well as the cash flows generated from our operations.



37



The primary drivers of the net increase in working capital between December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 were:



◦Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments increased by $2 million. Additional analysis of the changes in our cash flows for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2017 are discussed below.



◦Accounts receivable decreased by $7 million. Days sales outstanding (“DSO”) increased to 71 days at March 31, 2018, compared to 68 days at December 31, 2017.



◦Inventory increased by $9 million to $193 million at March 31, 2018, from $185 million at December 31, 2017. Inventory turns were 1.6 and 1.7 at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. The increase in inventory was primarily attributable to an increase in raw materials.



◦Prepaid expenses and other current assets increased by $17 million which was primarily related to an increase in prepaid freight costs in addition to the timing of insurance and maintenance renewals.



◦Accrued compensation decreased by $9 million which can be attributed to payments related to our company profit sharing plan and severance under our ongoing restructuring initiative in addition to a reduction in accrued commissions.



◦The current portion of deferred revenue increased by $7 million, primarily due to the timing of renewals of certain enterprise-wide subscription software licensing arrangements.



◦Other current liabilities increased by $9 million which was primarily related to changes in the fair value of our foreign currency forward exchange contracts and an increase in our corporate taxes payable.



◦Other taxes payable decreased by $4 million primarily related to the timing of payments for VAT and other indirect taxes.



Analysis of Cash Flow



The following table summarizes our cash flow results for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 decreased by $7 million compared to the same period in 2017. This decrease was primarily due to additional prepayments for freight costs, insurance, and maintenance in addition to increased purchases of raw materials. 



Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 increased by $25 million compared to the same period in 2017. This was primarily attributable to a net purchase of short-term investments of $42 million compared to $13 million during the same period in 2017, driven by favorable increases in the yields offered by our short-term investments. The increase in cash outflows used in investing activities was partially offset by a decrease in capitalized software development costs of $4 million compared to the same period in 2017.



38



Financing Activities Cash used by financing activities increased by $2 million for the three month period ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017. This was primarily due to a $3 million increase in cash outflows related to the increase in our quarterly dividend offset by a $1 million increase in proceeds from issuance of our common stock from our employee stock purchase plan. From time to time, our Board of Directors has authorized various programs for our repurchase of shares of our common stock depending on market conditions and other factors. Under the current program, we did not repurchase any shares during the three months ended March 31, 2018 or March 31, 2017. (See “Note 11 – Authorized shares of common and preferred stock and stock-based compensation plans” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion about our equity compensation plans and share repurchase program).



Contractual Cash Obligations. Information related to our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Contractual Obligations,” in Part II-Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2018 (the “2017 Form 10-K”). At March 31, 2018, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations (including non-cancellable operating leases) from those reported in our 2017 Form 10-K.



Loan Agreement. On May 9, 2013, we entered into a Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank (the “Lender”). On October 29, 2015, we entered into a First Amendment to Loan Agreement (the “Amendment”) with the Lender, which amended our Loan Agreement to among other things, (i) increase the unsecured revolving line of credit from $50.0 million to $125.0 million, (ii) extend the maturity date of the line of credit from May 9, 2018 to October 29, 2020, and (iii) provide us with an option to request increases to the line of credit of up to an additional $25.0 million in the aggregate, subject to consent of the Lender and terms and conditions to be mutually agreed between us and the Lender. On April 27, 2018, we entered into a Second Amendment to Loan Agreement (the “Second Amendment”) with the Lender, which amends the Loan Agreement, as amended by the Amendment, to, among other things, (i) reduce the revolving line of credit from $125.0 million to $5.0 million, (ii) reduce the letter of credit sublimit under the line of credit from $10.0 million to $5.0 million, and (iii) require the us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain of the affirmative and negative covenants under the Loan Agreement only if loans are outstanding under the Loan Agreement or if we have not reimbursed any drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Loan Agreement within five business days following the request of the Lender. Proceeds of loans made under the Loan Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We may prepay the loans under the Loan Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. Certain of our existing and future material domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations under the Loan Agreement. (See “Note 13 – Debt ” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on our revolving line of credit).



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  We do not have any off-balance sheet debt. At March 31, 2018, we did not have any relationships with any unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we were engaged in such relationships. 



Prospective Capital Needs. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations as well as from the purchase of common stock through our employee stock purchase plan will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, commitments, payment of dividends to our stockholders and repurchases of our common stock for at least the next 12 months. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 will allow us to repatriate our foreign cash for domestic needs without additional taxation. We may also seek to pursue additional financing or to raise additional funds by seeking an increase in our unsecured revolving line of credit under our Loan Agreement or selling equity or debt to the public or in private transactions from time to time. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock.



39



Although we believe that we have sufficient capital to fund our operating activities for at least the next 12 months, our future capital requirements may vary materially from those now planned. We anticipate that the amount of capital we will need in the future will depend on many factors, including: 



•payment of dividends to our stockholders;



•required levels of research and development and other operating costs;



•our business, product, capital expenditure and research and development plans, and product and technology roadmaps; 



•acquisitions of other businesses, assets, products or technologies; 



•the overall levels of sales of our products and gross profit margins;



•the levels of inventory and accounts receivable that we maintain;



•general economic and political uncertainty and specific conditions in the markets we address, including any volatility in the industrial economy in the various geographic regions in which we do business;



•the inability of certain of our customers who depend on credit to have access to their traditional sources of credit to finance the purchase of products from us, which may lead them to reduce their level of purchases or to seek credit or other accommodations from us;



•capital improvements for facilities; 



•repurchases of our common stock; 



•our relationships with suppliers and customers; and 



•the level of stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan. 



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



See “Note 1 – Recently issued accounting pronouncements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 



40



