Item 4. Controls and Procedures.  



Disclosure Controls and Procedures  



The phrase “disclosure controls and procedures” refers to controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), such as this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  



Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as of October 26, 2018, the end of the fiscal period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the Evaluation Date). Based on this evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded as of the Evaluation Date that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective such that the information required to be disclosed in our SEC reports (i) is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and (ii) is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  



Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  



There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) identified in connection with our evaluation that occurred during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 that has materially affected or is reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.  



42 



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  



Not Applicable.  



Item 5. Other Information.  



None. 



54 



Item 6. Exhibits.  



The following documents are filed as exhibits to this report. 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



•  



Identifies management plan or compensatory plan or arrangement. 



55 



SIGNATURE  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Date: November 19, 2018  



56
