PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018. Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously described under Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.



Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018. Additionally, any one of those risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations.



 29



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock. In November 2016, the Board authorized an additional $2.00 billion under our repurchase program and extended it through December 2020.



Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 254 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $6.16 billion through July 29, 2018. All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock. As of July 29, 2018, we were authorized to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $1.16 billion through December 2020.



The repurchases can be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured share repurchase programs, and can be made in one or more larger repurchases. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.



We had no share repurchase transactions during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.



Transactions Related to our Convertible Notes and Note Hedges



During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we issued one thousand shares of our common stock upon settlement of Convertible Notes submitted for conversion. In connection with these conversions, we exercised a portion of our Note Hedges to acquire an equal number of shares of our common stock. The counterparty to the Note Hedges may be deemed an “affiliated purchaser” and may have purchased the shares of our common stock deliverable to us upon this exercise of our option. Subsequently, we received additional conversion notices for an aggregate of $11 million in principal amount of the Convertible Notes, which are expected to be settled in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019. The actual number of shares issuable upon conversion will be determined based upon the terms of the Convertible Notes. We expect to receive an equal number of shares of our common stock under the terms of the Note Hedges. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Convertible Notes and the Note Hedges.



Restricted Stock Unit Share Withholding



We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 0.3 million shares at a total cost of $66 million through net share settlements. During the first half of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 2.1 million shares at a total cost of $515 million through net share settlements. Refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our equity incentive plans.



 30



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Filed herewith



+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement



# In accordance with Item 601(b)(32)(ii) of Regulation S-K and SEC Release Nos. 33-8238 and 34-47986, Final Rule: Management's Reports on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic Reports, the certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 hereto are deemed to accompany this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and will not be deemed “filed” for purpose of Section 18 of the Exchange Act. Such certifications will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.



Copies of above exhibits not contained herein are available to any shareholder upon written request to:



Investor Relations: NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95051.



 31



