PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



Item 1. Legal Proceedings  



The material set forth in Note 11 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 14 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.  



Item 1A. Risk Factors  



In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. The risks discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On December 14, 2017 and February 2, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion. As of February 28, 2018, approximately $22.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.  



Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.  



The following table summarizes the stock repurchase activity for the three months ended February 28, 2018 and the approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased pursuant to our stock repurchase program:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



48  



Table of Contents 



Item 6. Exhibits  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 ‡  Filed herewith.  



 †  Furnished herewith.  



49  



Table of Contents 



