 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



We begin Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our businesses and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition.  



Business Overview  



Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of corporate information technology (IT) environments—applications, platform and infrastructure. Our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings are delivered to customers worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models including cloud based, on-premise or hybrid, which enable customer choice and flexibility. We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.  



Our Oracle Cloud offerings provide a comprehensive and fully integrated stack of applications, platform, compute, storage and networking services in all three primary layers of the cloud: Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). We also offer Oracle Applications, Oracle Database and Oracle Fusion Middleware software, among others; hardware products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage and industry-specific products, among others; and related support and services.  



Our comprehensive and fully integrated stack of Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings integrate the software, hardware and services on the customers’ behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage for the customer. Our integrated Oracle Cloud offerings are designed to be rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; easily maintainable to reduce integration and testing work; connectable among differing deployment models to enable interchangeability and extendibility between cloud and on-premise IT environments; compatible to easily move workloads between on-premise IT environments and the Oracle Cloud; cost-effective by requiring lower upfront customer investment; and to be secure, standards-based and reliable. We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud IT environments, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure. Our products and services are the building blocks of our Oracle Cloud services, our partners’ cloud services and our customers’ cloud IT environments.  



In addition to providing a broad spectrum of cloud offerings, we develop and sell our applications, platform and infrastructure products and services to our customers worldwide for use in cloud-based IT environments and other IT environments. An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses. We have a deep understanding as to how applications, platform and infrastructure technologies interact and function with one another within IT environments. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors. After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our research and development efforts and deep IT expertise by electing to purchase and renew Oracle support offerings for their software and hardware deployments, which may include unspecified product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us.  



As customers deploy with the Oracle Cloud, many are adopting a hybrid IT model whereby certain of their IT instances are deployed using the Oracle Cloud, while other of their IT instances are deployed using Oracle on-premise offerings, with both instances designed with capabilities to be managed as though they are a single instance. Our Oracle Cloud at Customer program provides another deployment option for customers to utilize the Oracle Cloud Machine and Oracle Database Exadata Cloud Machine to bring certain Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings to a customer’s on-premise IT environment to meet data sovereignty, data residency, data protection and regulatory business policy requirements, among others, while benefiting from the many advantages of a cloud service.  



26  



Table of Contents 



A selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. We believe that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies to further our corporate strategy.  



In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models. To address this demand, we have increased our investments in and focus on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based applications, platform and infrastructure technologies resulting in higher growth of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues as customer preferences have pivoted to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and as customers migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing on-premise workloads. We expect these trends to continue. We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and interoperable deployment models for our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy and better address customer needs relative to our competitors, many of whom provide fewer offerings and more restrictive deployment models. We enable our customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT deployment model at whatever pace is most appropriate for them.  



We have three businesses: cloud and on-premise software; hardware; and services; each of which comprises a single operating segment. Our chief operating decision makers (CODMs), which include our Chief Executive Officers and Chief Technology Officer, view the operating results of our three businesses and allocate resources in a manner that is consistent with the changing market dynamics that we have experienced in recent periods. As a result, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we updated our operating segments. The discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations presented below provides the current view that is utilized by our CODMs to evaluate performance and determine resource allocations and the prior periods’ results presented below were recast to conform to the current periods’ presentation. In addition to the discussion below, Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, provides additional information related to our businesses and operating segments, including the recasting of our segments’ financial information from prior periods to conform to the current year’s presentation.  



Cloud and On-Premise Software Business  



Our cloud and on-premise software line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and on-premise software offerings.  



Our Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that we host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for on-premise, cloud-based, or hybrid IT infrastructure for a stated period. The majority of our SaaS, PaaS and IaaS arrangements have a duration of 12 to 36 months and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal.  



We offer customers the ability to license our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, for cloud-based and other IT environments. Our new software license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized when unrestricted access to the software license is granted provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud-based offerings in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the subscription period. New software license customers have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which grant rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance. Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration and are generally billed in advance of the service being performed and are generally recognized as revenues as the software support services are delivered.  



27  



Table of Contents 



Our cloud SaaS, cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues and new software licenses revenues are affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings, our acquisitions, our ability to deliver and renew our cloud contracts with our existing customers and foreign currency rate fluctuations. In recent periods, we have placed significant strategic emphasis on growing our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues, which represented 16% of our total consolidated revenues during each of the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, and 13% and 12% of our total consolidated revenues during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively. This emphasis has affected the growth of our new software licenses revenues and, to a lesser extent, has also affected the growth of our software license updates and product support revenues. We expect these trends will continue with the mix of this business’ revenues continuing to shift toward cloud-based services.  



Our software license updates and product support revenues growth is primarily influenced by four factors: (1) the percentage of our software support contract customer base that renews its software support contracts and the percentage of customers that purchase software support contracts in connection with their purchase of a new software license; (2) the pricing of new software support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses; (3) the pricing of new software licenses sold; and (4) the amount of software support contracts assumed from companies we have acquired. Substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support contracts when they acquire on-premise new software licenses and renew their software license updates and product support contracts when eligible in order to benefit from Oracle’s research and development investments that are utilized as a part of unspecified periodic software updates that may be released and that customers with current software support contracts are entitled to.  



On a constant currency basis, we expect that our total cloud and on-premise software revenues generally will continue to increase due to:  



   •    expected growth in our cloud SaaS offerings and our cloud PaaS and IaaS offerings;  



   •    continued demand for our software products and related software support, including the high percentage of customers that purchase and renew their software license updates and product support contracts; and  



   •    contributions from our acquisitions.  



We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and on-premise software products and services.  



Our cloud and on-premise software business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.  



Hardware Business  



Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems, and management software that are generally recognized as revenues upon delivery to the customer provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met, and also include related hardware support. We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value-added resellers. Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues as the hardware support services are delivered.  



28  



Table of Contents 



We generally expect our hardware business to have lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues than our cloud and on-premise software business due to the incremental costs we incur to produce and distribute these products and to provide support services, including direct materials and labor costs.  



Our quarterly hardware revenues are difficult to predict. Our hardware revenues, cost of hardware and hardware operating margins that we report are affected by: our ability to timely manufacture or deliver a few large hardware transactions; our strategy for and the competitive position of our hardware products relative to competitor offerings; customer demand for competing offerings such as PaaS and IaaS; the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; whether customers decide to purchase hardware support contracts at or in close proximity to the time of hardware product sale; the percentage of our hardware support contract customer base that renews its support contracts and the close association between hardware products, which have a finite life, and customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products age; customer decisions to either maintain or upgrade their existing hardware infrastructure to newly developed technologies that are available; certain of our acquisitions; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.  



Services Business  



Our services business helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced support services and education services and represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis. Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and on-premise software and hardware businesses. Our services revenues are impacted by our strategy for and the competitive position of our services; customer demand for our cloud and on-premise software and hardware offerings and the associated services for these offerings; our strategic emphasis on growing our cloud revenues; certain of our acquisitions; general economic conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; personnel reductions in our customers’ IT departments; and tighter controls over discretionary spending.  



Acquisitions  



Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies, including NetSuite Inc. in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies in furtherance of our corporate strategy. Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions. We believe that we can fund our future acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.  



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as set forth in the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC), and we consider the various staff accounting bulletins and other applicable guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). GAAP, as set forth within the ASC, requires us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent that there are differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include:  



   •    Revenue Recognition;  



29  



Table of Contents 



   •    Business Combinations;  



   •    Goodwill and Intangible Assets—Impairment Assessments;  



   •    Accounting for Income Taxes; and  



   •    Legal and Other Contingencies.  



In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  



During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017 provides a more complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates.  



Results of Operations  



Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act  



The comparability of our operating results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year periods was impacted by the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017. Effective January 1, 2018, the Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%; creates a quasi-territorial tax system that a) generally allows, among other provisions, companies to repatriate certain foreign source earnings without incurring additional U.S. income tax for such earnings generated after December 31, 2017 and b) generally requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain foreign subsidiary earnings generated prior to December 31, 2017 that, in substantial part, were previously tax deferred; creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings; limits deductibility of certain future compensation arrangements to certain highly compensated employees; and provides tax incentives for the exportation of U.S. products to foreign jurisdictions and for the purchase of qualifying capital equipment; among other provisions.  



Because we have a May 31 fiscal year end, our fiscal 2018 blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate will be approximately 29%.  



During the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, our provision for income taxes increased and affected our net income (loss), primarily as a result of the following items related to the enactment of the Act:  



   •    a $7.6 billion expense related to the application of the one-time transition tax to certain foreign subsidiary earnings that were generated prior to December 31, 2017, which expense was substantially recorded to non-current income taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet and which corresponds to the amount we currently expect to periodically settle over an eight year period as provided by the Act;  



partially offset by:  



   •    a $744 million benefit related to the remeasurement of our net deferred tax liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future; and  



   •    the net favorable impacts of the Act on our tax profile and effective tax rate beginning on January 1, 2018, which we generally expect will continue into future periods.  



We expect the enactment of the Act to generally provide greater flexibility for us to access and utilize our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries as of January 1, 2018, as well as for prospective assets generated by these foreign subsidiaries’ future earnings and profits. We believe we have sufficient cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances, as well as access to other capital resources, if required, to settle the $7.6 billion one-time transition tax described above.  



30  



Table of Contents 



The net expense related to the enactment of the Act has been accounted for during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 based on provisional estimates pursuant to the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118. Subsequent adjustments, if any, will be accounted for in the period such adjustments are identified. The provisional estimates incorporate, among other factors, assumptions made based on interpretations of the Act and existing tax laws, and a range of historical and forecasted financial and tax-specific facts and information, including, without limitation, the amount of cash and other specified assets anticipated to be held by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries on relevant dates and estimates of deferred tax balances during interim periods pending finalization of those balances.  



Impacts of Acquisitions  



The comparability of our operating results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2017 was impacted by our recent acquisitions, including our acquisition of NetSuite Inc. during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods of fiscal 2017, we may qualitatively disclose the impact of our acquired products and services (for the one-year period subsequent to the acquisition date) to the growth in certain of our businesses’ revenues where such qualitative discussions would be meaningful for an understanding of the factors that influenced the changes in our results of operations. When material, we may also provide quantitative disclosures related to such acquired products and services. Expense contributions from our recent acquisitions for each of the respective period comparisons may not be separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses into our existing operations, and/or were insignificant to our results of operations during the periods presented.  



We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons, as well as any quantified amounts themselves, may provide indications of general trends, any acquisition information that we provide has inherent limitations for the following reasons:  



   •    any qualitative and quantitative disclosures cannot specifically address or quantify the substantial effects attributable to changes in business strategies, including our sales force integration efforts. We believe that if our acquired companies had operated independently and sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products and services sold would have been different; and  



   •    although substantially all of our software license customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal, and we strive to renew cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts and hardware support contracts, the amounts shown as cloud and on-premise software deferred revenues and hardware deferred revenues in our “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” (presented below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewals to the extent customers do not renew.  



Seasonality  



Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. In each fiscal year, our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. The operating margins of our businesses, in particular, our cloud and on-premise software business and hardware business, are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term.  



Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information  



In our results of operations discussion below, we provide an overview of our total consolidated revenues, total consolidated expenses and total consolidated operating margin, all of which are presented on a GAAP basis. We also present a GAAP-based discussion below for substantially all of the other expense items as presented in our condensed consolidated statement of operations that are not directly attributable to our three businesses.  



31  



Table of Contents 



In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting. The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs. Our operating segment presentation below reflects revenues, direct costs and sales and marketing expenses that correspond to and are directly attributable to each of our three businesses. We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below.  



Consistent with our internal management reporting processes, the below operating segment presentation includes revenues adjustments related to cloud and on-premise software contracts and hardware support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of these items and Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of our total operating segment revenues as presented in the discussion below to total revenues as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.  



In addition, research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangible assets, certain other expense allocations, acquisition related and other expenses, restructuring expenses, interest expense, non-operating income, net and provision for income taxes are not attributed to our three operating segments because our management does not view the performance of our three businesses including such items and/or it is impractical to do so. Refer to “Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges” below for additional discussion of certain of these items and Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for a reconciliation of the summations of total segment margin as presented in the discussion below to total income before provision of income taxes as presented per our condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.  



Constant Currency Presentation  



Our international operations have provided and are expected to continue to provide a significant portion of each of our businesses’ revenues and expenses. As a result, each businesses’ revenues and expenses and our total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. Dollar against major international currencies. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2017, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on February 28, 2018 and 2017, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.23 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 (using 1.23 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.06 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 (using 1.06 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period). The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 using the May 31, 2017 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency.  



32  



Table of Contents 



Total Revenues and Operating Expenses  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)   Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa  



 (2)   The Asia Pacific region includes Japan  



Fiscal Third Quarter 2018 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2017: Excluding the effects of favorable foreign currency rate variations of 4 percentage points, our total revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, partially offset by decreases in our hardware and services revenues. The constant currency increases in our cloud and on-premise software revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was attributable to growth in our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues, growth in our software license updates and product support revenues, and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. The constant currency decrease in our hardware revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to reductions in our hardware products revenues and hardware support revenues as we continued to place emphasis on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies. The constant currency decrease in our services revenues during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was attributable to declines in services revenues across all of our major services categories. In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 52%, 28% and 20%, respectively, to the growth in our third quarter of fiscal 2018 total revenues.  



Excluding the effects of unfavorable foreign currency rate variations of 3 percentage points, our total operating expenses decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower hardware products costs and a related decrease in sales and marketing costs, both of which aligned to lower hardware revenues; lower software license updates and product support expenses related primarily to a reduction in certain jurisdictional specific statutory obligation expenses; lower research and development expenses primarily related to lower employee expenses; and a decrease in restructuring expenses. These constant currency expense decreases were partially offset by higher expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to higher cloud SaaS expenses and cloud PaaS and IaaS expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud SaaS revenues and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues; and higher general and administrative expenses that were primarily related to higher professional fees that were legal related.  



33  



Table of Contents 



In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as our total revenues grew while our total expenses declined.  



First Nine Months Fiscal 2018 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2017: Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate variations, our total revenues increased in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due to similar reasons as those noted above for the increase in our total revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  



Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate variations, our total operating expenses increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to higher cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS expenses due to similar reasons as noted above; higher sales and marketing expenses; increased stock–based compensation expenses; increased restructuring expenses; and higher intangible asset amortization due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of NetSuite and other recently acquired companies. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by constant currency expense decreases during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to lower constant currency hardware expenses and lower constant currency software license updates and product support expenses, primarily due to similar reasons as noted above.  



In constant currency, our total operating margin increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in our total revenues and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues remained flat.  



Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges  



To supplement our condensed consolidated financial information, we believe that the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under “Impact of Acquisitions” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.  



Our operating results reported pursuant to GAAP included the following business combination accounting adjustments, expenses related to acquisitions, and certain other expense, and income items that affected our GAAP net income (loss): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)   In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS subscription and hardware obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize the cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS, and hardware revenue amounts as presented in the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations. To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts’ values over the respective contracts’ renewal periods.  



 (2)   Certain acquired companies capitalized sales commissions associated with subscription agreements and amortized these amounts over the related contractual terms. Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances. This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented.  



34  



Table of Contents 



 (3)   Represents the amortization of intangible assets, substantially all of which were acquired in connection with our acquisitions. As of February 28, 2018, estimated future amortization related to intangible assets was as follows (in millions):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (4)   Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation expenses for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.  



 (5)   Restructuring expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2017 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2017 Restructuring Plan). Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in the discussion below under “Restructuring Expenses”, Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.  



 (6)   Stock-based compensation was included in the following operating expense line items of our condensed consolidated statements of operations (in millions):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



    Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards.  



 (7)   For the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, the applicable jurisdictional tax rates applied to our income before provision for income taxes after adjusting for the effects of items within the table above, excluding income tax reform (see footnote (8) below), resulted in effective tax rates of 16.1% and 21.9%, respectively, instead of 222.0% and 95.2%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense and acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets. The income tax effects presented for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 were calculated reflecting effective tax rates of 21.6% and 24.1%, respectively, instead of 17.0% and 21.3%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets, and the net tax effects of stock-based compensation.  



 (8)   The income tax reform adjustments for the fiscal 2018 periods presented in the table above were due to the our enactment of the Act (refer to “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” above for additional discussion), which increased our GAAP provision for income taxes during these fiscal 2018 periods.  



Cloud and On-Premise Software Business  



Our cloud and on-premise software business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS offerings and the licensing of our software for cloud-based and other IT environments with the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts. Our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS  



35  



Table of Contents 



 and IaaS offerings are generally subscription based and generally recognized as revenues over the subscription period. New software licenses revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and other IT environments and are generally recognized when unrestricted access to the software license is granted provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Software license updates and product support revenues are typically generated through the sale of software support contracts related to new software licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our offerings through indirect channels. Costs associated with our cloud and on-premise software business are included in cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS expenses, software license updates and product support expenses, and sales and marketing expenses. These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS offerings and software support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and software offerings, and marketing program costs.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)   Includes cloud and on-premise software revenue adjustments related to certain cloud and software support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs. See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information.  



 (2)   Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above.  



Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total revenues from our cloud and on-premise software business increased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, relative to the corresponding prior  



36  



Table of Contents 



 year periods, due to growth in our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues, growth in our software license updates and product support revenues and revenue contributions from our recent acquisitions. The increases in our constant currency cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented were primarily due to the continued strategic emphasis we placed on selling, marketing and growing our cloud offerings and we expect these revenue trends will continue. The increases in constant currency software license updates and product support revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented were a result of substantially all customers electing to purchase software support contracts in conjunction with their purchase of new software licenses, and due to the renewal of substantially all of the software support customer base eligible for renewal during the trailing 4-quarter period. The Americas region contributed 48% and 68%, respectively, the EMEA region contributed 28% and 21%, respectively, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 24% and 11%, respectively, of the constant currency revenues growth for this business during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively.  



In constant currency, total cloud and on-premise software expenses increased in the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to higher cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount and technology infrastructure expenses that were incurred to support the related cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues increases; and higher sales and marketing expenses primarily resulting from increased headcount. These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by a decrease in software license updates and product support expenses during the fiscal 2018 periods presented, which were primarily related to a reduction in certain jurisdictional specific statutory obligation expenses.  



Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and on-premise software segment’s total margin increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to the increases in revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented. In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the increase in revenues, and was flat in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  



37  



Table of Contents 



Hardware Business  



Our hardware business revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer server, storage, and industry-specific hardware products for IT environments that are generally recognized as revenues upon delivery to the customer provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term. The majority of our hardware products are sold through indirect channels such as independent distributors and value-added resellers and we also market and sell our hardware products through our direct sales force. Operating expenses associated with our hardware business include the cost of hardware products, which consists of expenses for materials and labor used to produce these products by our internal manufacturing operations or by third-party manufacturers, warranty expenses and the impact of periodic changes in inventory valuation, including the impact of inventory determined to be excess and obsolete; the cost of materials used to repair customer products; the cost of labor and infrastructure to provide support services; and sales and marketing expenses, which are largely personnel related and include variable compensation earned by our sales force for the sales of our hardware offerings. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)   Includes hardware revenue adjustments related to certain hardware contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements. Such revenue adjustments were included in our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs. See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information.  



 (2)   Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes amortization of intangible assets and certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above.  



Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware revenues decreased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to our continued emphasis on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based infrastructure technologies, which resulted in reduced sales volumes of certain of our hardware product lines and also impacted the volume of customers that purchased hardware support contracts during the fiscal 2018 periods.  



Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, total hardware expenses decreased in the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the fiscal 2017 periods presented, due primarily to lower hardware products costs and lower employee related expenses, which aligned to lower hardware revenues.  



38  



Table of Contents 



In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as expenses decreased at a rate faster than our revenues for this business.  



Services Business  



We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies. Services revenues are generally recognized as the services are performed. The cost of providing our services consists primarily of personnel related expenses, technology infrastructure expenditures, facilities expenses and external contractor expenses.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)   Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations. Also excludes certain other GAAP-based expenses, which were not allocated to our operating segment results for purposes of reporting to and review by our CODMs, as further described under “Presentation of Operating Segments and Other Financial Information” above.  



Fiscal Third Quarter 2018 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2017: Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 due to revenue declines in our consulting, advanced customer services and education revenues. Constant currency decreases in our services revenues in the Americas and EMEA regions were partially offset by a constant currency services revenues increase in the Asia Pacific region.  



Total services expenses were flat in constant currency in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 relative to the corresponding prior year period. In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the decrease in revenues for this business.  



First Nine Months Fiscal 2018 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2017: Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues were flat in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Constant currency increases in our services revenues primarily from our recent acquisitions were offset by decreases in other services revenues, primarily in the Americas and EMEA regions.  



In constant currency, total services expenses were flat during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, while total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues declined slightly.  



39  



Table of Contents 



Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  



On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses decreased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower fiscal 2018 employee related expenses related to lower headcount resulting from the restructuring of certain of our research and development operations during the fiscal 2018 periods presented. These fiscal 2018 cost savings were partially offset by investments in the development of our cloud-based offerings and by higher stock-based compensation during the fiscal 2018 periods relative to the corresponding prior year periods.  



General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for IT, finance, legal and human resources support functions.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation  



On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods due primarily to higher professional services expenses that were primarily legal related, and higher stock-based compensation.  



Amortization of Intangible Assets: Substantially all of our intangible assets were acquired through our business combinations. We amortize our intangible assets over, and monitor the appropriateness of, the estimated useful lives of these assets. We also periodically review these intangible assets for potential impairment based upon relevant facts and circumstances. Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report has additional information regarding our intangible assets and related amortization.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Fiscal Third Quarter 2018 Compared to Fiscal Third Quarter 2017: Amortization of intangible assets decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 due to a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our  



40  



Table of Contents 



 intangible assets that became fully amortized during the trailing four quarter period. These decreases during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired since the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2017.  



First Nine Months Fiscal 2018 Compared to First Nine Months Fiscal 2017: Amortization of intangible assets increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, primarily our acquisition of NetSuite.  



Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, and certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those restricted stock-based awards and stock options.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses decreased in the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower stock-based compensation expenses and were also offset by certain benefits we recorded to professional fees and other, net during the fiscal 2018 periods presented.  



Restructuring Expenses: Restructuring expenses resulted from the execution of management approved restructuring plans that were generally developed to improve our cost structure and/or operations, often in conjunction with our acquisition integration strategies. Restructuring expenses consist of employee severance costs and may also include charges for duplicate facilities and other contract termination costs to improve our cost structure prospectively. For additional information regarding our restructuring plans, see Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 periods presented primarily related to our 2017 Restructuring Plan. Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2017 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our management supplemented the 2017 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take. The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan are up to $1.1 billion and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred. The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan were approximately $112 million as of February 28, 2018 and the majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2018. Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods.  



The majority of the initiatives undertaken by our 2017 Restructuring Plan were effected to implement our continued move toward developing, marketing and selling our cloud-based offerings. These initiatives impacted  



41  



Table of Contents 



 certain of our sales and marketing and research and development operations. Cost savings that are expected to be realized pursuant to our 2017 Restructuring Plan initiatives are primarily expected to be offset by investments in resources and geographies that best address the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based offerings as customer preferences pivot to the Oracle Cloud.  



Interest Expense:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest expense increased in the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $10.0 billion of senior notes in November 2017 (refer to Recent Financing Activities presented below for additional information), which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $3.5 billion of senior notes during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  



Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains (losses), the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income (losses), including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the fiscal 2017 periods presented, primarily due to an increase in other income, net related to higher net realized gains on the sale of certain marketable securities and higher interest income resulting from higher cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances and higher interest rates.  



Provision for Income Taxes: Our effective tax rates for each of the periods presented were the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Act was signed into law. The more significant provisions of the Act as applicable to us are described above under “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”. Our provision for income taxes for the fiscal 2018 periods presented varied from the 21% U.S. statutory rate imposed by the Act due primarily to the January 1, 2018 effective date of the Act, the impacts of the Act upon adoption, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation, and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Prior to the January 1, 2018 effective date of the Act, our provision for income taxes historically differed from the tax computed at the previous U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to certain earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations, state taxes, the U.S. research and development tax credit, settlements with tax authorities, the tax effects of stock-based compensation and the U.S. domestic production activity deduction. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by an unfavorable shift of earnings weighted to jurisdictions with higher tax rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, by adverse rulings in tax related litigation, or by shortfalls in stock-based compensation realized by employees relative to stock-based compensation that was recorded for book purposes, among others.  



42  



Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Provision for income taxes increased in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the net unfavorable impacts due to our initial accounting for the enactment of the Act on January 1, 2018 (refer to “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” above for additional information) and, to a lesser extent, by the tax effect of higher income before provision for income taxes (determined after taking into account the net favorable impact of the Act on our tax profile) during the fiscal 2018 periods presented; and changes in unrecognized tax benefits due to settlements with tax authorities and other events during fiscal 2017 not present in fiscal 2018. These unfavorable impacts to our provision for income taxes were partially offset by higher fiscal 2018 realized excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation expense.  



Liquidity and Capital Resources  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Working capital: The increase in working capital as of February 28, 2018 in comparison to May 31, 2017 was primarily due to the issuance of $10.0 billion of long-term senior notes in November 2017 (refer to Recent Financing Activities Below for additional information), the favorable impacts to our net current assets resulting from our operations during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and proceeds from stock option exercises. These favorable working capital movements were partially offset by cash used for repurchases of our common stock, cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Our working capital may be impacted by some or all of the aforementioned factors in future periods, the amounts and timing of which are variable.  



Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities consist of Tier-1 commercial paper debt securities, corporate debt securities and certain other securities. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at February 28, 2018 in comparison to May 31, 2017 was primarily due to the issuance of $10.0 billion of senior notes (refer to Recent Financing Activities Below for additional information), cash inflows generated by our operations and cash inflows from stock option exercises during the first nine months of fiscal 2018. These cash inflows were partially offset by certain cash outflows, primarily the repayment of $7.3 billion of borrowings, repurchases of our common stock, payments of cash dividends to our stockholders and cash used for capital expenditures.  



As a result of the enactment of the Act on January 1, 2018, we expect greater flexibility in accessing and utilizing our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, as well as prospective assets generated by these foreign subsidiaries’ future earnings and profits. We believe we have sufficient cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances and access to additional capital resources, if required, to settle the $7.6 billion one-time transition tax described under “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” above.  



The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances held by our foreign subsidiaries is subject to translation adjustments caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss in our condensed consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report). As the U.S. Dollar generally weakened against certain major international currencies during the first nine months of  



43  



Table of Contents 



 fiscal 2018, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for these subsidiaries increased on a net basis as of February 28, 2018 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2017 balance sheet date.  



Days sales outstanding, which we calculate by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 36 days at February 28, 2018 compared with 44 days at May 31, 2017. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the impact of any revenue adjustments resulting from business combinations that reduced our acquired cloud, on-premise software and hardware obligations to fair value.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements. Payments from customers for these support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contracts’ terms, which are generally one year in length. Over the course of a fiscal year, we also have historically generated cash from the sales of new software licenses, cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings, hardware offerings and services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee related expenditures, material and manufacturing costs related to the production of our hardware products, taxes and leased facilities.  



Net cash provided by operating activities increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to higher net income after adjusting for the one-time income tax accounting effects of our adoption of the Act (refer to “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” for additional discussion).  



Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to our acquisitions, the timing of our purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable securities and investments in capital and other assets, including certain intangible assets, to support our growth.  



Net cash used for investing activities decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 relative to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due primarily to a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, partially offset by an increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities and other investments, net of proceeds received from sales and maturities.  



Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and repayments related to our debt instruments as well as stock repurchases, dividend payments and net proceeds related to employee stock programs.  



Net cash used for financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was $4.5 billion in comparison to net cash provided by financing activities of $5.8 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2017. The decrease in financing activities cash flows during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 relative to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to debt related cash flows for which we had $2.6 billion of cash inflows from borrowings, net of repayments, in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 in comparison to $9.8 billion of cash inflows form borrowings, net of repayments, in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 and an increase in repurchases of common stock during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  



44  



Table of Contents 



Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe that free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flow as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Long-Term Customer Financing: We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution. We generally record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables. We financed $673 million and $509 million, respectively, or approximately 18% and 13%, respectively, of our new software licenses revenues in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017.  



Recent Financing Activities:  



Common Stock Repurchase Program: Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion. As of February 28, 2018, approximately $22.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.  



Senior Notes: In November 2017, we issued $10.0 billion of senior notes comprised of the following:  



   •    $1.25 billion of 2.625% senior notes due February 2023;  



   •    $2.00 billion of 2.95% senior notes due November 2024;  



   •    $2.75 billion of 3.25% senior notes due November 2027;  



   •    $1.75 billion of 3.80% senior notes due November 2037; and  



   •    $2.25 billion of 4.00% senior notes due November 2047.  



We issued the senior notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common stock, repayment of indebtedness and future acquisitions. Additionally, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we repaid $3.5 billion of senior notes pursuant to their terms. Additional details regarding the senior notes are included in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017. There have been no other significant changes in our notes payable or other borrowing arrangements that were disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.  



45  



Table of Contents 



Contractual Obligations: During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, there were no significant changes to our estimates of future payments under our fixed contractual obligations and commitments as presented in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.  



We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements, including the $7.6 billion one-time transition tax described under “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” above. In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.  



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.  



Restricted Stock-Based Awards and Stock Options  



Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders.  



We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2014 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.2% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new restricted stock-based awards or stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised. Of the outstanding stock options at February 28, 2018, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, 16.6% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program. However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes. At February 28, 2018, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 9.8%.  



Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock. On December 14, 2017 and February 2, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion. As of February 28, 2018, approximately $22.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.  



Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements for acquisitions and dividend payments, our debt repayment obligations or repurchases of our debt, our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.  



The following table summarizes the stock repurchase activity for the three months ended February 28, 2018 and the approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased pursuant to our stock repurchase program:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



48  



Table of Contents 



Item 6. Exhibits  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 ‡  Filed herewith.  



 †  Furnished herewith.  



49  



Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Oracle Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



50
