PART II - OTHER INFORMATION 



Item 1: Legal Proceedings 



We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business. All such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes that are not predictable with assurance. In our opinion, as of March 31, 2019, there were no claims or litigation pending that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 



Item 1A: Risk Factors 



See our 2018 Form 10-K (Item 7A). As of May 10, 2019, there have been no material changes in this information except for an update based on conducting business in foreign countries: 



Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks. 



A substantial portion of our manufacturing activities are conducted in China. There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including: (i) fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, and in particular the impact of a re-valuation of the Chinese Yuan; (ii) impact of tariffs or trade wars among the countries in which we do business; (iii) difficulties in repatriation of earnings; (iv) disruption to our supply chain, including our ability to import materials and export products; (v) nationalist sentiment creating advantages for our competitors in their home countries; (vi) impact of labor unrest; (vii) unexpected legal or regulatory changes, particularly changes to environmental, labor or manufacturing regulations; (vii) lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property rights; (viii) difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel and managing international operations; (ix) less developed infrastructure; and (x) other unfavorable political or economic factors which could include nationalization of the wireless communications or related industries. If we are unable to manage successfully these and other risks pertaining to our international activities, our operating results, cash flows and financial position could be materially and adversely affected.  



All of our employees in Tianjin, China are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law. These two labor unions do not have collective bargaining rights. We are in the process of transitioning several product lines from our Tianjin facility to additional contract manufacturers in China and elsewhere throughout 2019 and 2020. The transition of manufacturing will result in a reduction of a significant portion of our workforce in Tianjin, China. We are currently negotiating severance arrangements for these workers.  



In the third quarter 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative imposed duties on certain Chinese imports containing industrially significant technologies, including certain PCTEL antenna and antenna components, and there are additional tariffs under review. Tariffs impact the gross margin that we earn on sales of its products and have necessitated price increases. Furthermore, political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes and protectionist measures may have a negative effect on customer confidence and spending. We will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit. The impact of the tariffs on our future revenue and profitability is uncertain. 



Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



None. 



Item 3: Defaults Upon Senior Securities 



None. 



Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures 



Not applicable. 



Item 5: Other Information 



In January 2019, the Company entered into an eleven-year lease with FP Gateway 270 for 21,030 square feet of office space in Clarksburg, Maryland for our test and measurement product line. This new office lease will replace the leased office in Germantown, Maryland. The total lease obligations pursuant to the new lease agreement is approximately $5.4 million with a commencement date of January 1, 2020 and termination date of February 28, 2031.  



31 



Item 6: Exhibits 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 *** incorporated by reference 



32 



