PART II - OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



We encourage you to carefully consider the risk factors identified below and in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. These risk factors could materially affect our business, financial condition, and future results and they could cause our actual business and financial results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or elsewhere by management from time to time. 



On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million, senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”). We may use borrowings to finance working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million. See Item 5. “Other Information” for additional information.



Any failure to meet our debt obligations would damage our business.



Our ability to repay any amounts we borrow under our Credit Agreement will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which are subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. If we are not profitable in the future or if we use more cash than we generate in the future, our level of indebtedness at such time could adversely affect our operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for additional capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above.



We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our revolving credit facility. Any failure to comply with those covenants could cause amounts borrowed to become immediately due and payable and/or prevent us from borrowing under the credit facility.



We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our Credit Agreement. Any failure to comply with those covenants could cause amounts borrowed to become immediately due and payable and/or prevent us from borrowing under the Credit Agreement. We are required to comply with specified financial and operating covenants under our Credit Agreement and to make payments, which limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any debt payment obligations could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and/or unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants under the Credit Agreement at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds. The financial and operating covenants under the Credit Agreement also may limit our ability to borrow funds, including for strategic acquisitions and share repurchases.



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Common stock repurchased in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Shares withheld to cover the option exercise price and tax withholding obligations under the net settlement provisions of our stock compensation awards have been included in these amounts. 



(2) See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 2. “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION



On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”). We may use borrowings to finance working capital needs and for general corporate purposes. Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million.



The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default. Principal covenants include a maximum net consolidated leverage ratio of 3.5 (with a step-up in the event of certain acquisitions) and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.5. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, which includes, among other things, payment defaults, defaults in the performance of 



25

affirmative and negative covenants, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, cross-defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency-related defaults, defaults relating to judgments, certain events resulting in a material adverse effect on us and a change of control of us.



The interest rates applicable to revolving loans under the Credit Agreement are, at our option, either:



•the London Interbank Offered Rates (“LIBOR”) Rate plus an interest margin based on our net consolidated leverage ratio; or



•a base rate (which is the highest of (1) PNC’s prime rate, (2) the Federal Funds open rate in effect on such day plus 0.5%, and (3) the daily LIBOR Rate plus 1%) plus an interest margin based on our net consolidated leverage ratio. 



We are obligated to pay an unused commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement that varies between 0.15% and 0.225% depending on our net consolidated leverage ratio. The credit facility includes a provision for the replacement of the LIBOR rate in the event that such rate is no longer available. The replacement rate will be determined by PNC in consultation with us. The revolving credit facility may be prepaid before maturity in whole or in part at our option without penalty or premium. We may at any time reduce or terminate the commitments under the credit facility.



The description of the Credit Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



+ Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.



26

