PART II -- OTHER INFORMATION



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business. We believe that it is unlikely that any of these actions will have a material adverse impact on our operating results; however, because of the inherent uncertainties of litigation, the outcome of any of these actions could be unfavorable and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.



RISK FACTORS 



You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in Part I, "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on May 17, 2019 (the "Form 10-K"), each of which could materially affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations. There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K. 



The risks described here and in the Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, or future results of operations.



48

UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



The following table presents information with respect to repurchases of our common stock made by us during the second quarter of fiscal year 2020:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1



Represents shares of our common stock that were tendered to us in satisfaction of employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock issued pursuant to equity awards under our 2003 Stock Plan.



2



"Average Price Paid per Share" reflects open market repurchases of common stock only.



3



On November 28, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a 1 million share repurchase program expanding our capacity to repurchase shares under a previously approved share repurchase program to approximately 1.7 million shares. Although we may repurchase shares from time to time in open market transactions or through privately negotiated transactions, we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock under the repurchase program during the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. There is no expiration date associated with the repurchase activity under the existing repurchase program.



49

OTHER INFORMATION



None.



EXHIBITS 



We have filed the following documents as Exhibits to this Form 10-Q:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



50

Plantronics, Inc.



FORM 10-Q



CROSS REFERENCE TABLE



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



51

