PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



Information regarding certain legal proceedings is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies.” We are also engaged in numerous other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business and, while there can be no assurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of these other legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



We have provided updated Risk Factors in the section labeled “Risk Factors” in “Part I, Item 2, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  With the exception of prior changes to our Risk Factors in our Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 24, 2017, specifically changes to the risk factor labeled “Potential tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations” and the addition of the risk factor labeled “If we are unsuccessful in executing our cost plan, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected,” we do not believe those updates have materially changed the type or magnitude of the risks we face in comparison to the disclosure provided in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K.



59



ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Issuer purchases of equity securities in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 were:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Average Price Paid Per Share excludes cash paid for commissions.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



Not applicable.



ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.



ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION



In connection with the European Commission (EC) fine (see “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies” in this Quarterly Report), the Company intends to provide a financial guarantee to satisfy its obligation of €997,439,000 while the Company appeals the EC’s decision to the General Court of the European Union. To provide the financial guarantee, the Company entered into (a) a Continuing Letter of Credit Agreement (Uncommitted) dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and BNP Paribas (BNP), pursuant to which BNP has agreed to issue an irrevocable letter of credit in an aggregate amount of €250,000,000 in favor of the EC (the BNP Letter of Credit); (b) a Master Reimbursement Agreement dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays), pursuant to which Barclays has agreed to issue a standby letter of credit in an aggregate amount of €332,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Barclays Letter of Credit and, together with the BNP Letter of Credit, the Letters of Credit); (c) a General Indemnity Agreement dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation (Swiss Re), pursuant to which Swiss Re has agreed to provide a guarantee for an aggregate amount of €60,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Swiss Re Guarantee); and (d) a General Agreement of Indemnity dated as of April 20, 2018, between the Company and Euler Hermes North America Insurance Company (Euler), pursuant to which Euler has agreed to provide a guarantee for an aggregate amount of €200,000,000 in favor of the EC (the Euler Guarantee). In addition, pursuant to the Company’s existing General Indemnity Agreement with Zurich American Insurance Company and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd (collectively, Zurich) dated as of October 30, 2017, Zurich will provide a guarantee for an aggregate principal amount of €155,439,000 in favor of the EC (the Zurich Guarantee and, together with the Swiss Re Guarantee and the Euler Guarantee, the Guarantees). Collectively, the aggregate principal amount of the Letters of Credit and the Guarantees will equal €997,439,000. 



Each Letter of Credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default. Each Letter of Credit provides that, in the event a disbursement is made in respect of such Letter of Credit but is not reimbursed as required, the unreimbursed amount will bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the prime rate (as defined in the applicable Letter of Credit) plus 2.0%. The Company has also agreed to pay customary fees to each of BNP and Barclays in connection with the BNP Letter of Credit and the Barclays Letter of Credit, respectively. If an event of default under a Letter of Credit occurs and is not cured or waived, any unpaid fees outstanding under such Letter of Credit may be declared immediately due and payable.



The Swiss Re Guarantee and the Euler Guarantee each contain customary provisions for transactions of this type, and provide that the Company will pay all premiums, costs and charges of Swiss Re and Euler under the terms of the applicable 



60



Guarantee. In addition, the Company will pay Swiss Re and Euler interest at a rate per annum equal to the prime rate (as defined in the applicable Guarantee) plus 2.0% on any payments made by Swiss Re or Euler, as applicable. 



61



ITEM 6. EXHIBITS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



62



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



63



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) The Company shall furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule to the Commission upon request.



(2) Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be identified pursuant to Item 15(a).



64



