ITEM 1.  



FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



Richardson Electronics, Ltd. 



Consolidated Balance Sheets 



(in thousands, except per share amounts) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



2 



Richardson Electronics, Ltd. 



Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss 



(in thousands, except per share amounts) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



3 



Richardson Electronics, Ltd. 



Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 



(in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



4 



Richardson Electronics, Ltd. 



Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity 



(in thousands, except per share amounts) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



5 



RICHARDSON ELECTRONICS, LTD. 



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



1. DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY 



Richardson Electronics, Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered solutions, power grid and microwave tubes and related consumables; power conversion and RF and microwave components; high value flat panel detector solutions, replacement parts, tubes and service training for diagnostic imaging equipment; and customized display solutions. We serve customers in the alternative energy, healthcare, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets. The Company’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and “engineered solutions” based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities. The Company provides solutions and adds value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair through its global infrastructure. 



Our products include electron tubes and related components, microwave generators, subsystems used in semiconductor manufacturing and visual technology solutions. These products are used to control, switch or amplify electrical power signals, or are used as display devices in a variety of industrial, commercial, medical and communication applications. 



We have three operating and reportable segments, which we define as follows: 



Power and Microwave Technologies Group (“PMT”) combines our core engineered solutions capabilities, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF, Wireless and disruptive power technologies. As a manufacturer, technology partner and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities on a global basis. We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure. PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in 5G, alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets. PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar and radiation oncology. PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment. 



Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets. Our engineers design, manufacture, source and support a full spectrum of solutions to match the needs of our customers. We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services. We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms. 



Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery. 



We currently have operations in the following major geographic regions: North America, Asia/Pacific, Europe and Latin America. 



2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION 



The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. 



Our fiscal quarter ends on the Saturday nearest the end of the quarter-ending month. The first three months of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 both contained 13 weeks. 



In the opinion of management, all adjustments, which are of a normal and recurring nature, necessary for a fair presentation of the results of interim periods have been made. All inter-company transactions and balances have been eliminated. The unaudited consolidated financial statements presented herein include the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The results of our operations for the three months ended August 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending May 30, 2020. 



The financial information contained in this report should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 1, 2019, that we filed on August 5, 2019. 



6 



3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 



Inventories, net: Our consolidated inventories were stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value, generally using a weighted-average cost method. Our net inventories include approximately $48.5 million of finished goods, $4.0 million of raw materials and $1.6 million of work-in-progress as of August 31, 2019, as compared to approximately $47.2 million of finished goods, $4.2 million of raw materials and $1.8 million of work-in-progress as of June 1, 2019.  



At this time, we do not anticipate any material risks or uncertainties related to possible future inventory write-downs. Provisions for obsolete or slow moving inventories are recorded based upon regular analysis of stock rotation privileges, obsolescence, the exiting of certain markets and assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If future demand changes in the industry, or market conditions differ from management’s estimates, additional provisions may be necessary. Inventory reserves were approximately $4.6 million as of August 31, 2019 and June 1, 2019. 



Revenue Recognition: Our product sales are recognized as revenue upon shipment, when title passes to the customer, when delivery has occurred or services have been rendered and when collectability is reasonably assured. We also record estimated discounts and returns based on our historical experience. Our products are often manufactured to meet the specific design needs of our customers’ applications. Our engineers work closely with customers to ensure that our products will meet their needs. Our customers are under no obligation to compensate us for designing the products we sell. 



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09 (“ASU 2014-09”), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which amends guidance for revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is principles based guidance that can be applied to all contracts with customers, enhancing comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets. The core principle of the guidance is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The guidance details the steps entities should apply to achieve the core principle. In August 2015, the FASB issued an amendment to defer the effective date for all entities by one year. For public entities, ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Companies have the option of using either a full or modified retrospective approach in applying this standard. During fiscal 2016 and 2017, the FASB issued four additional updates which further clarify the guidance provided in ASU 2014-09. 



Effective June 3, 2018, the Company adopted the standard using the modified retrospective method to all contracts. As a result, financial information for the reporting period beginning June 3, 2018 was reported under the new standard, while comparative financial information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported in accordance with the previous standard. The adoption of this standard did not impact the timing of revenue recognition for our customer sales. The adoption did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings, nor did it have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. For the Company, the most significant impact of the new standard is the addition of required disclosures within the notes to the financial statements. 



Loss Contingencies: We accrue a liability for loss contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When only a range of possible loss can be established, the most probable amount in the range is accrued. If no amount within this range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. If we determine that there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred, we will include a disclosure describing the contingency. 



Intangible Assets: Intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair market values determined on quoted market prices in active markets, if available, or recognized valuation models. Intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives either on a straight-line basis or over their projected future cash flows and are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate possible impairment. Our intangible assets represent the fair value for trade name, customer relationships, non-compete agreements and technology acquired in connection with our acquisitions. 



Income Taxes: We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and determine the need for a valuation allowance based on a number of factors, including both positive and negative evidence. These factors include historical taxable income or loss, projected future taxable income or loss, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. In circumstances where we, or any of our affiliates, have incurred three years of cumulative losses which constitute significant negative evidence, positive evidence of equal or greater significance is needed to overcome the negative evidence before a tax benefit is recognized for deductible temporary differences and loss carryforwards. 



7 



Accrued Liabilities: Accrued liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



4. REVENUE RECOGNITION 



Richardson has a number of defined revenue streams across our reportable segments. For each of these revenue streams, all products are typically sold directly by the Company to the end customer. Distribution is the Company’s largest revenue stream. The distribution business does not include a separate service bundled with the product sold or sold on top of the product. Distribution typically includes products purchased from our suppliers, stocked in our warehouses and then sold to our customers. Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods is transferred to our customers, which is simultaneous with the title transferring to the customer, in an amount that reflects the transaction price consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those goods. Control refers to the ability of the customer to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all of, the remaining benefits from the goods. Our transaction price consideration is fixed, unless otherwise disclosed below as variable consideration. Generally, our contracts require our customers to pay for goods after we deliver products to them. Terms are generally on open account, payable net 30 days in North America, and vary throughout Asia/Pacific, Europe and Latin America subject to customary credit checks. 



The Company also sells products that are manufactured or assembled in our manufacturing facility. These products can either be built to the customer’s prints/designs or are products that we stock in our warehouse to sell to any customer that places an order. The manufacturing business does not include a separate service bundled with the product sold or sold in addition to the product. 



The Company recognizes services revenue when the repair, installation or training is performed. Based on our analysis of services revenue, ASU 2014-09 has an immaterial impact on the timing, amount or characterization of services revenue recognized by the Company. The services we provide are relatively short in duration and typically completed in one to two weeks. Therefore, at each reporting date, the amount of unbilled work performed is insignificant. The services revenue has consistently accounted for less than 5% of the Company’s total revenues and is expected to continue at that level. 



Contracts with customers 



A contract is an agreement between two or more parties that creates enforceable rights and obligations. A revenue contract exists for us once a customer purchase order is received, reviewed and accepted. Prior to accepting a customer purchase order, we review the credit worthiness of the customer. Purchase orders are deemed to meet the collectability criterion once the customer’s credit is approved. Contract assets arise when the Company transfers a good or performs a service in advance of receiving consideration from the customer and contract liabilities arise when the Company receives consideration from its customer in advance of performance. 



Contract Liabilities: Contract liabilities and revenue recognized were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company receives advance payments or deposits from our customers before revenue is recognized, resulting in contract liabilities. Contract liabilities are included in accrued liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. 



8 



Performance obligations and satisfaction of performance obligation in the contract 



Each accepted purchase order identifies a distinct good or service as the performance obligation. The goods are generally standard products we purchased from a supplier and stocked on our shelves. They can also be customized products purchased from a supplier or products that are customized or have value added to them in-house prior to shipping to the customer. Our contracts for customized products generally include termination provisions if a customer cancels its order. However, we recognize revenue at a point in time because the termination provisions do not require, upon cancelation, the customer to pay fees that are commensurate with the work performed. Each purchase order explicitly states the goods or service that we promise to transfer to the customer. The promises to the customer are limited only to those goods or service. The performance obligation is our promise to deliver both goods that were produced by the Company and resale of goods that we purchase from our suppliers. Our shipping and handling activities for destination shipments are performed prior to the customer obtaining control. As such, they are not a separate promised service. For shipping point, Richardson is making the election under ASC 606-10-25-18B to account for shipping and handling as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods. The goods we provide to our customers are distinct in that our customers benefit from the goods we sell them through use in their own processes. Our customers are generally not resellers, but rather businesses that incorporate our products into their processes from which they generate an economic benefit. The goods are also distinct in that each item sold to the customer is clearly identified on both the purchase order and resulting invoice. Each product we sell benefits the customer independently of the other products. Each item on each purchase order from the customer can be used by the customer unrelated to any other products we provide to the customer. 



Determine the transaction price and variable consideration 



The transaction price for each product is the amount invoiced to the customer. Each product on a purchase order is a separate performance obligation with an observable standalone selling price. The transaction price is a fixed price per unit, except for the variable consideration. The Company elects to exclude sales tax from the transaction price. With the exception of sale with right of return, variable consideration has been identified only in the form of customer early payment discounts, which are immaterial to the Company’s financial statements. Although there is not a material impact on our financial statements, we will continue to account for customer discounts when they are taken by the customer and address further if they grow. 



Recognize revenue when the entity satisfies a performance obligation 



We recognize revenue when title transfers to the customer, at the shipping point for FOB shipping contracts and at the customer’s delivery location for FOB destination contracts. We believe that the transfer of title best represents when the customer obtains control of the goods. Prior to that date, we do not have right to payment, and the significant risks and rewards remain with us. The significant risks and rewards of ownership of the inventory transfer simultaneously with the transfer of title. The customer’s acceptance of the goods is based on objective measurements, not subjective. 



Additional considerations 



Sale with right of return: 



Our return policy is available to customers in our terms and conditions found on our website www.rell.com. The policy varies by business unit. The Company allows returns with prior written authorization and we allow returns within 10 days of shipment for replacement parts. 



The Company maintains a reserve for returns based on historical trends that covers all contracts and revenue streams using the expected value method because we have a large number of contracts with similar characteristics, which is considered variable consideration. The reserve for returns creates a refund liability on our balance sheet as a contra Trade Accounts Receivable as well as an asset in inventory. We value the inventory at cost due to there being minimal or no costs to the Company as we generally require the customer to pay freight and we typically do not have costs associated with activities such as relabeling or repackaging.  



The reserve is considered immaterial at each balance sheet date for further consideration. Returns for defective product are typically covered by our supplier’s warranty, thus, returns for defective product are not factored into our reserve. 



Warranties: 



We offer warranties for the limited number of specific products we manufacture. Our warranty terms generally range from one to three years. We estimate the cost to perform under the warranty obligation and recognize this estimated cost at the time of sale. Each quarter, we assess actual warranty costs incurred on a product-by-product basis and compare the warranty costs to our estimated warranty reserve. With respect to new products, estimates are based generally on knowledge of the products and warranty experience, if a sufficient history exists. See Note 7, Warranties, for further information regarding the impact of warranties concerning ASU 2014-09. 



9 



Principal versus agent considerations: 



Principal versus agent guidance was considered for customized products that are provided by our suppliers versus manufactured by the Company. Richardson acts as the principal as we are responsible for satisfying the performance obligation. We have primary responsibility for fulfilling the contract, we have inventory risk prior to delivery to our customer, we establish prices, our consideration is not in the form of a commission and we bear the credit risk. The Company recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration. 



See Note 11, Segment Reporting, for a disaggregation of revenue by reportable segment and geographic region, which represents how our chief operating decision maker reviews information internally to evaluate our financial performance and to make resource allocation and other decisions for the Company. 



5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 



Intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair market values determined by quoted market prices in active markets, if available, or recognized valuation models. Intangible assets that have finite useful lives are amortized over their useful lives and are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate possible impairment. 



Our intangible assets represent the fair value for trade name, customer relationships, non-compete agreements and technology acquired in connection with our acquisitions. Intangible assets subject to amortization were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)  



Change from prior periods reflect impact of foreign currency translation. 



The amortization expense associated with the intangible assets subject to amortization for the next five years is presented in the following table (in thousands):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The weighted average number of years of amortization expense remaining is 14.3 years. 



6. INVESTMENTS 



As of August 31, 2019, we had no investments. 



As of June 1, 2019, we had $8.0 million invested in CDs which mature in less than twelve months. The fair value of these investments was equal to the face value of the CDs.  



10 



7. WARRANTIES 



We offer warranties for the limited number of specific products we manufacture. Our warranty terms generally range from one to three years. 



We estimate the cost to perform under the warranty obligation and recognize this estimated cost at the time of the related product sale. We record expense related to our warranty obligations as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. Each quarter, we assess actual warranty costs incurred on a product-by-product basis and compare the warranty costs to our estimated warranty obligation. With respect to new products, estimates are based generally on knowledge of the products and warranty experience, if a sufficient history exists. 



Warranty reserves are established for costs that are expected to be incurred after the sale and delivery of products under warranty. Warranty reserves are included in accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. The warranty reserves are determined based on known product failures, historical experience and other available evidence. Warranty reserves were approximately $0.3 million as of August 31, 2019 and June 1, 2019. 



8. LEASE OBLIGATIONS, OTHER COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 (“ASU 2016-02”), Leases (“Topic 842”). ASU 2016-02 establishes a right-of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available.  



ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available. The Company elects the practical expedients (which must be elected as a package and applied consistently to all of our leases) for which we will not reassess: (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contains leases, (2) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases and (3) the initial indirect costs for any existing leases. We have also elected the practical expedient to combine lease and non-lease components for all of our leases. We have adopted an accounting policy to not apply the requirements of Topic 842 to leases with a term of 12 months or less, which the Company has within our facility leases. Short-term leases will be reassessed if events occur that disqualify them from short-term status. 



The new standard was effective for the Company on June 2, 2019. The FASB issued ASU 2018-11, targeted improvements to Topic 842, which includes an option to not restate comparative periods in transition and elect to use the effective date of Topic 842 as the date of initial application of transition. We adopted the new standard applying the new transition method allowed under ASU 2018-11. As a result of adopting Topic 842, we recognized operating right-of-use assets of $3.6 million, finance right-of-use assets of $0.5 million, operating lease liabilities of $3.8 million and finance lease liabilities of $0.5 million. Existing deferred rent of $0.2 million was recorded as an offset to our gross operating lease right-of-use assets. Several leases include renewal clauses which vary in length and may not include specific rent renewal amounts. The Company will revise the value of the right of use assets and associated lease liabilities when the Company is reasonably certain it will renew the lease. The standard did not have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. 



The gross amounts of assets and liabilities related to both operating and finance leases at August 31, 2019 were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



11 



The components of lease costs were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company recorded $0.4 million of lease expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 



The approximate future minimum lease payments under operating and finance leases at August 31, 2019 were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The approximate future minimum lease payments under operating and finance leases at June 1, 2019 were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)  



On June 2, 2019, the Company elected the modified retrospective method of transition to adopt the new lease standard Topic 842, which resulted in no restatement of prior period results. At June 1, 2019, prior to adoption of the new lease standard, operating lease obligations were not included as a liability on the balance sheet. Therefore, the operating lease obligations were included in the table for comparative purposes only and the total lease liability was not included as it is not applicable. 



The weighted average remaining lease terms and interest rates of leases held by the Company as of August 31, 2019 were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The cash outflows of the leasing activity of the Company as lessee for the three months ending August 31, 2019 were as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



12 



9. INCOME TAXES 



We recorded an income tax provision of $0.2 million and $0.3 million for the first three months of fiscal 2020 and the first three months of fiscal 2019, respectively. The effective income tax rate during the first three months of fiscal 2020 was a tax provision of 53.0% as compared to a tax provision of 38.6% during the first three months of fiscal 2019. The difference in rate during the first three months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first three months of fiscal 2019 reflects changes in our geographical distribution of income (loss). The 53.0% effective income tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of our geographical distribution of income (loss) and the movement of the valuation allowance against our U.S. state and federal net deferred tax assets. 



In the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. Generally, years prior to fiscal 2009 are closed for examination under the statute of limitation for U.S. federal, U.S. state and local or non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. Our primary foreign tax jurisdictions are Germany and the Netherlands. We have tax years open in Germany beginning in fiscal 2015 and the Netherlands beginning in fiscal 2012. 



We have historically determined that certain undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, to the extent of cash available, will be repatriated to the U.S. We have provided a deferred tax liability totaling $0.2 million as of August 31, 2019. As of June 1, 2019, the deferred tax liability totaled $0.2 million.  



As of August 31, 2019, our worldwide liability for uncertain tax positions related to continuing operations was $0.1 million, excluding interest and penalties as compared to $0.1 million liabilities for uncertain tax positions as of June 1, 2019. There was no change in recorded uncertain tax positions during the first three months of fiscal 2020. We record penalties and interest related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax expense line item within the consolidated statements of comprehensive loss. 



The valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets that will more likely than not be realized was $11.7 million as of June 1, 2019. The valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets was $11.7 million as of August 31, 2019 as no material additional domestic federal and state net deferred tax assets were generated during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from losses in the U.S. jurisdiction. A full valuation allowance on the U.S. and state deferred tax assets will be maintained until sufficient positive evidence related to sources of future taxable income exists to support a reversal of the valuation allowance. The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward period are increased, or if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight may be given to subjective evidence such as our projections for growth. 



10. CALCULATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE 



We have authorized 17,000,000 shares of common stock, and 3,000,000 shares of Class B common stock. The Class B common stock has 10 votes per share and has transferability restrictions; however, Class B common stock may be converted into common stock on a share-for-share basis at any time. With respect to dividends and distributions, shares of common stock and Class B common stock rank equally and have the same rights, except that Class B common stock cash dividends are limited to 90% of the amount of Class A common stock cash dividends. 



In accordance with ASC 260-10, Earnings Per Share (“ASC 260”), our Class B common stock is considered a participating security requiring the use of the two-class method for the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share. The two-class computation method for each period reflects the cash dividends paid per share for each class of stock, plus the amount of allocated undistributed earnings per share computed using the participation percentage which reflects the dividend rights of each class of stock. Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed using the two-class method as prescribed in ASC 260. The shares of Class B common stock are considered to be participating convertible securities since the shares of Class B common stock are convertible on a share-for-share basis into shares of common stock and may participate in dividends with common stock according to a predetermined formula which is 90% of the amount of Class A common stock cash dividends.  



13 



The earnings per share (“EPS”) presented in our unaudited consolidated statements of comprehensive loss were based on the following amounts (in thousands, except per share amounts): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Note: Common stock options that were anti-dilutive and not included in diluted earnings per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were 1,502. 



11. SEGMENT REPORTING 



In accordance with ASC 280-10, Segment Reporting, we have identified three reportable segments as follows: 



PMT combines our core engineered solutions capabilities, power grid and microwave tube business with new RF, Wireless and disruptive power technologies. As a manufacturer, technology partner and authorized distributor, PMT’s strategy is to provide specialized technical expertise and engineered solutions based on our core engineering and manufacturing capabilities on a global basis. We provide solutions and add value through design-in support, systems integration, prototype design and manufacturing, testing, logistics and aftermarket technical service and repair—all through our existing global infrastructure. PMT’s focus is on products for power, RF and microwave applications for customers in 5G, alternative energy, aviation, broadcast, communications, industrial, marine, medical, military, scientific and semiconductor markets. PMT focuses on various applications including broadcast transmission, CO2 laser cutting, diagnostic imaging, dielectric and induction heating, high energy transfer, high voltage switching, plasma, power conversion, radar and radiation oncology. PMT also offers its customers technical services for both microwave and industrial equipment. 



Canvys provides customized display solutions serving the corporate enterprise, financial, healthcare, industrial and medical original equipment manufacturers markets. Our engineers design, manufacture, source and support a full spectrum of solutions to match the needs of our customers. We offer long term availability and proven custom display solutions that include touch screens, protective panels, custom enclosures, all-in-ones, specialized cabinet finishes and application specific software packages and certification services. We partner with both private label manufacturing companies and leading branded hardware vendors to offer the highest quality display and touch solutions and customized computing platforms. 



Healthcare manufactures, refurbishes and distributes high value replacement parts for the healthcare market including hospitals, medical centers, asset management companies, independent service organizations and multi-vendor service providers. Products include Diagnostic Imaging replacement parts for CT and MRI systems; replacement CT and MRI tubes; CT service training; MRI coils, cold heads and RF amplifiers; hydrogen thyratrons, klystrons, magnetrons; flat panel detector upgrades; and additional replacement solutions currently under development for the diagnostic imaging service market. Through a combination of newly developed products and partnerships, service offerings and training programs, we believe we can help our customers improve efficiency and deliver better clinical outcomes while lowering the cost of healthcare delivery. 



14 



The CEO evaluates performance and allocates resources primarily based on the gross profit of each segment. 



Operating results by segment are summarized in the following table (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Geographic net sales information is primarily grouped by customer destination into five areas: North America; Asia/Pacific; Europe; Latin America; and Other. 



Net sales and gross profit by geographic region are summarized in the following table (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)  



Other includes primarily net sales not allocated to a specific geographical region, unabsorbed value-add costs and other unallocated expenses. 



We sell our products to customers in diversified industries and perform periodic credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition. Terms are generally on open account, payable net 30 days in North America, and vary throughout Asia/Pacific, Europe and Latin America. Estimates of credit losses are recorded in the financial statements based on monthly reviews of outstanding accounts. 



12. LITIGATION 



On October 15, 2018, Varex Imaging Corporation (“Varex”) filed its original Complaint (Case No. 1:18-cv-06911) against Richardson Electronics Ltd. (“Richardson”) in the Northern District of Illinois, which was subsequently amended on November 27, 2018. Varex alleged counts of infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,456,692 and 6,519,317. Subsequently, on October 24, 2018, Varex filed a motion for preliminary injunction to stop the sale of Richardson’s ALTA750 TM product. Richardson filed an opposition to the preliminary injunction. In January 2019, the Court took evidence on the preliminary injunction issue. On September 30, 2019, the Court soundly denied Varex’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction. Richardson believes the lawsuit to be without merit and a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information at the time the financial statements were issued. 



15 



13. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 



ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. 



ASC 820 establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists; therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. 



As of August 31, 2019, we held no investments that were required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 



14. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION 



On June 15, 2015, the Company entered into a lease agreement for the IMES facility with LDL, LLC. The Executive Vice President of IMES, Lee A. McIntyre III (former owner of IMES), has an ownership interest in LDL, LLC. The lease agreement provides for monthly payments over five years with total future minimum lease payments of $0.1 million. Rental expense related to this lease amounted to less than $0.1 million for the three months ended August 31, 2019 and for the three months ended September 1, 2018. The Company shall be entitled to extend the term of the lease for a period of an additional five years by notifying the landlord in writing of its intention to do so within six months of the expiration of the initial term. 



16 



ITEM 1.  



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 



On October 15, 2018, Varex Imaging Corporation (“Varex”) filed its original Complaint (Case No. 1:18-cv-06911) against Richardson Electronics Ltd. (“Richardson”) in the Northern District of Illinois, which was subsequently amended on November 27, 2018. Varex alleged counts of infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,456,692 and 6,519,317. Subsequently, on October 24, 2018, Varex filed a motion for preliminary injunction to stop the sale of Richardson’s ALTA750 TM product. Richardson filed an opposition to the preliminary injunction. In January 2019, the Court took evidence on the preliminary injunction issue. On September 30, 2019, the Court soundly denied Varex’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction. Richardson believes the lawsuit to be without merit and a loss is not probable or estimable based on the information at the time the financial statements were issued. 



ITEM 1A.  



RISK FACTORS 



There have been no material changes to the risk factors previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 1, 2019, filed August 5, 2019. 



