Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed and consolidated financial statements and the related notes. It contains forward-looking statements (which may be identified by words such as those described in “Risk Factors—Forward-Looking Statement Risks” in Part I of the most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K), including statements regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations with respect to, among other things, trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations (including our financial targets discussed below under “Management of Operating Performance and Reporting” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources”); backlog; our industry; government budgets and spending; market opportunities; the impact of competition; and the impact of the Engility and Scitor acquisitions. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below, in “Risk Factors” in Part II of this report and in Part I of the most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. Due to such risks, uncertainties and assumptions you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We do not undertake any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future results or developments.



We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.



The Company utilizes a 52/53 week fiscal year, ending on the Friday closest to January 31, with fiscal quarters typically consisting of 13 weeks. Fiscal 2019 began on February 3, 2018 and ended on February 1, 2019, while fiscal 2020 began on February 2, 2019 and ends on January 31, 2020.



Business Overview



We are a leading technology integrator providing full life cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets. We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 50 years. As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity. Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government. We serve our customers through approximately 2,200 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 23,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders. Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.



Economic Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks



In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. Appropriations measures passed in September 2018 and February 2019, when combined, provided full funding for the federal government through the end of government fiscal year (GFY) 2019. These bills were funded at increased levels for defense and non-defense spending based on a bi-partisan agreement reached in February 2018 to lift caps set by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), providing additional business opportunities for the Company. 



In July 2019, Congress passed, and the President signed, legislation that would increase the caps for GFY 2020 and GFY 2021 by a total of $323 billion. GFY 2020 and GFY 2021 are the final two years of the BCA limits on discretionary spending, so enactment of this measure effectively ended the threat of sequestration going forward (there remain caps for additional years on certain mandatory spending accounts, but these have little to no effect on our business). The cap increases also were paired with an extension of the federal debt limit until July 31, 2021, postponing the threat of a federal government default.



While the cap increases prevent sequestration under the BCA, Congress has only passed a series of continuing resolutions to fund the government in GFY 2020, with the current one running through December 20, 2019. There remains a possibility that political and policy disputes could result in a full or partial government shutdown later this year.



-19-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Adverse changes in fiscal and economic conditions could materially impact our business. In addition to the ongoing threat of shutdowns, future Congresses could choose to reduce overall spending levels or fail to increase the federal debt limit.



The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.



Despite the budget and competitive pressures affecting the industry, we believe we are well-positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size, and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contract opportunities. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.



We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance, and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions are inspired through innovation based on adoption of best practices and technology integration of the best capabilities available. Our past performance was achieved by employees dedicated to supporting our customers’ most challenging missions. Our current cost structure and ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings are expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation for successful program execution, competitive cost structure, and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.



On January 14, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc. (collectively with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Engility"). The acquisition of Engility accelerates the execution of our long-term strategy to be the premier technology integrator in the government services market and deliver sustained profitable growth. The acquisition of Engility strengthens the execution of our long-term strategy by: (1) combining two leading government service providers with highly complementary capabilities, customers, and cultures; (2) accelerating both companies' long-term strategies, creating sub-segment scale in strategic business areas of national interest; and (3) enhancing shareholder value through improved cash flow and margin profile driven by cost synergies and increased growth from greater customer access with more competitive and differentiated solutions.



Management of Operating Performance and Reporting



Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor contract margin performance by constantly evaluating contract risks and opportunities. Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.



We evaluate our results of operations by considering the drivers causing changes in revenues, operating income and operating cash flows. Given that revenues fluctuate on our contract portfolio over time due to contract awards and completions, changes in customer requirements, and increases or decreases in ordering volume of materials, we evaluate significant trends and fluctuations in these terms. Whether performed by our employees or by our subcontractors, we primarily provide services and, as a result, our cost of revenues are predominantly variable. We also analyze our cost mix (labor, subcontractor or materials) in order to understand operating margin because programs with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable. Changes in costs of revenues as a percentage of revenue other than from revenue volume or cost mix are normally driven by fluctuations in shared or corporate costs, or cumulative revenue adjustments due to changes in estimates.



Changes in operating cash flows are described with regard to changes in cash generated through the delivery of services, significant drivers of fluctuations in assets or liabilities and the impacts of changes in timing of cash receipts or disbursements.



-20-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Results of Operations



The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenues, operating income, and cash flows from operating activities. The following table summarizes our results of operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenues. Revenues increased $453 million or 38.5% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility. Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.5% due to acquisition related dis-synergies.



Revenues increased $1,372 million or 39.6% for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility. Adjusting for the impact of acquired revenues, revenues contracted 1.4%, primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts with the U.S. Marine Corps ($69 million) and the effect of acquisition related dis-synergies.



Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $408 million for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased from 89.0% in the prior year quarter to 89.3%, due to lower current quarter net profit write-ups, partially offset by the acquisition of Engility.



Cost of revenues increased $1,175 million for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.1% in the prior year to 88.9%, due to higher labor content partially driven by the Engility acquisition.



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. SG&A increased $26 million for the three months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility and related intangible asset amortization ($19 million), partially offset by acquisition related cost synergies.



SG&A increased $112 million for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility and related intangible asset amortization ($57 million), partially offset by acquisition related synergies.



Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 5.8% for the three months ended November 1, 2019 decreased from 6.2% in the comparable prior year period due to increased intangible asset amortization, lower current quarter net profit write-ups and acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by cost synergies.



Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 5.8% for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 from 6.1% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to increased intangible asset amortization and acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by cost synergies.



-21-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders. Net income attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended November 1, 2019 increased $7 million as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to increased operating income ($17 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.



Net income attributable to common stockholders for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 increased $21 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income ($57 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $389 million for the nine months ended November 1, 2019, an increase of $227 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to cash provided from the operating activities of Engility, strong customer collections across several programs, and customer collections recouped from the U.S. federal government partial shutdown that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.



Non-GAAP Measures



EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding acquisition and integration costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance. The acquisition and integration costs relate to the Company's significant acquisition of Engility. 



While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures may be useful in evaluating our financial information, it should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Other companies may define similar measures differently.



We believe that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA provide management and investors with useful information in assessing trends in our ongoing operating performance and may provide greater visibility in understanding the long-term financial performance of the Company.



EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented were calculated as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Adjustment to reflect the portion of acquisition and integration costs recovered through the Company's indirect rates in accordance with Cost Accounting Standards.



Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenues for the three months ended November 1, 2019 remained consistent with the prior year. Cost synergies related to the acquisition were offset by lower net profit write-ups.



Adjusted EBITDA for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 increased to 8.3% of revenues from 7.4% of revenues for the prior year, driven by the acquisition of Engility and cost synergies related to the acquisition.



-22-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Other Key Performance Measures



In addition to the financial measures described above, we believe that bookings and backlog are useful measures for management and investors to evaluate our potential future revenues. We also consider measures such as contract types and cost of revenues mix to be useful for management and investors to evaluate our operating income and performance.



Net Bookings and Backlog. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts. We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.



Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts. Given that much of our revenue is derived from IDIQ contract task orders that renew annually, bookings on these contracts tend to refresh annually as the task orders are renewed. Additionally, we do not include in backlog contract awards that are under protest until the protest is resolved in our favor.



We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows:



•Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.



•Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.



We expect to recognize revenue from a substantial portion of our funded backlog within the next twelve months. However, the U.S. government can adjust the scope of services of or cancel contracts at any time. Similarly, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel prior to contract completion. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees (contract profit) for work performed.



The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates presented was:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We had net bookings worth an estimated $2.2 billion and $5.5 billion during the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019. Total backlog at the end of the third quarter has increased compared to total backlog at prior year end due to several large awards received during the period from classified customers in the intelligence community, NASA, and other various federal government customers, as well as increased funding on existing contracts. 



-23-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Contract Types. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract. For a discussion of the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see “Contract Types” in Part I of the most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our contract mix for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of cost reimbursement type contracts, and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.



Cost of Revenues Mix. We generate revenues by providing a customized mix of services to our customers. The profit generated from our service contracts is affected by the proportion of cost of revenues incurred from the efforts of our employees (which we refer to below as labor-related cost of revenues), the efforts of our subcontractors and the cost of materials used in the performance of our service obligations under our contracts. Contracts performed with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable. The following table presents changes in cost mix for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cost of revenues mix for the three and nine months ended November 1, 2019 reflects an increase in labor-related content primarily due to the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of such costs.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



As a services provider, our business generally requires minimal infrastructure investment. We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $400 million Revolving Credit Facility.



We anticipate that our future cash needs will be for working capital, capital expenditures, and contractual and other commitments. We consider various financial measures when we develop and update our capital deployment strategy, which includes evaluating cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow and financial leverage. When our cash generation enables us to exceed our target average minimum cash balance, we intend to deploy excess cash through dividends, share repurchases, debt prepayments or strategic acquisitions.



Our ability to fund these needs will depend, in part, on our ability to generate cash in the future, which depends on our future financial results. Our future results are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors that may be outside of our direct control. Although we believe that the financing arrangements in place will permit us to finance our operations on acceptable terms and conditions for at least the next year, our future access to, and the availability of financing on acceptable terms and conditions will be impacted by many factors (including our credit rating, capital market liquidity and overall economic conditions). Therefore, we cannot ensure that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such financing will be available at all. Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.



-24-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Historical Cash Flow Trends



The following table summarizes our cash flows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the nine months ended November 1, 2019 and the comparable prior year period.



Net Cash Used in Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 increased compared to the prior year period due to purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by lower capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment.



Net Cash Used in Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended November 1, 2019 increased compared to the prior year period primarily due to $150 million of voluntary principal prepayments on the Term Loan A Facility, increase in stock repurchased and retired or withheld for taxes on equity awards, and an increase in dividend payments to stockholders.



Critical Accounting Policies



Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our condensed and consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies, as well as the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, gains and losses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and assumptions have been prepared on the basis of the most current reasonably available information and, in some cases, are our basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and assumptions may change in the future as more current information is available.



Management believes that our critical accounting policies are those that are both material to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.



There have been no changes to our existing critical accounting policies, other than our accounting policy on leases, during the nine months ended November 1, 2019 from those disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. We revised our accounting policy on leases in conjunction with our adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02. See Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.



Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



For information on recently issued but not yet adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.



