PART II—OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings



We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.



In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations. Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 11 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”



Item 1A. Risk Factors



There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Purchases of Equity Securities. We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans. Whether repurchases are made and the timing and amount of repurchases depend on a variety of factors including market conditions, our capital position, internal cash generation and other factors. We also repurchase shares in connection with stock option and stock award activities to satisfy tax withholding obligations.



The following table presents repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended May 3, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Date ranges represent our fiscal periods during the current quarter. Our fiscal quarters typically consist of one five-week period and two four-week periods.



(2) Includes shares purchased on surrender by stockholders of previously owned shares to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations related to stock option exercises and vesting of stock awards in addition to shares purchased under our publicly announced plans or programs.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities



No information is required in response to this item.



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures



No information is required in response to this item.



Item 5. Other Information



No information is required in response to this item.



-26-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Item 6. Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-27-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



