Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed and consolidated financial statements and the related notes. It contains forward-looking statements (which may be identified by words such as those described in “Risk Factors—Forward-Looking Statement Risks” in Part I of the most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K), including statements regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations with respect to, among other things, trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations (including our financial targets discussed below under “Management of Operating Performance and Reporting” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources”); backlog; our industry; government budgets and spending; market opportunities; the impact of competition; and the impact of the Scitor acquisition. Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below, in “Risk Factors” in Part II of this report and in Part I of the most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. Due to such risks, uncertainties and assumptions you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We do not undertake any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future results or developments.



We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.



The Company utilizes a 52/53 week fiscal year, ending on the Friday closest to January 31, with fiscal quarters typically consisting of 13 weeks. Fiscal 2018 began on February 4, 2017 and ended on February 2, 2018, while fiscal 2019 began on February 3, 2018 and ends on February 1, 2019.



Business Overview



We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets. We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 45 years. As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity. Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government. We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders. Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve. Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.



Pending Acquisition of Engility



On September 9, 2018, we entered into the Merger Agreement by and among SAIC, Engility Holdings, Inc. ("Engility"), and Raptors Merger Sub, Inc., pursuant to which we will acquire Engility (the “Merger”). At the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding share of Engility common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.450 shares of SAIC common stock. In connection with the Merger, the Company has obtained a commitment letter from Citigroup Global Markets Inc. for a new seven-year senior secured $1.05 billion term loan facility under our existing credit agreement. The proceeds will be used to repay Engility’s existing credit facility and outstanding notes. The estimated transaction value is $2.5 billion based on a SAIC per share closing price of $89.86 on September 7, 2018, including the repayment of Engility’s net debt. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies’ Board of Directors. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval of both SAIC and Engility stockholders and clearance under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act, and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.



-20-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Economic Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks



In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform. Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. A recently-passed omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company. A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019. But beyond that two-year window, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in August 2011. Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.



Adverse changes in fiscal and economic conditions could materially impact our business. Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns and issues related to required increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (under current law, the debt ceiling will be reached in March 2019).



The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.



Despite the budget and competitive pressures impacting the industry, we believe we are well positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued. Our scale, size and prime contractor leadership position are expected to help differentiate us from our competitors, especially on large contracts. We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts. SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers. In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.



We succeed as a business based on the solutions we deliver, our past performance and our ability to compete on price. Our solutions, inspired through innovation, are based on best practices and technology transfer. Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus. Our current cost structure, as well as our ongoing efforts to reduce costs by strategic sourcing and developing repeatable offerings, is expected to allow us to compete effectively on price in an evolving environment. Our ability to be competitive in the future will continue to be driven by our reputation of successful program execution, competitive cost structure and efficiencies in assigning the right people, at the right time, in support of our contracts.



Restructuring



During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth. Management's restructuring activities included involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities. Management completed the Restructuring in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. Total restructuring costs of approximately $13 million were incurred and recognized, comprised of $6 million in severance expense and $7 million in lease exit costs, which included $1 million in accelerated depreciation expense. Refer to "Results of Operations" below, and "Restructuring" in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.



Management of Operating Performance and Reporting



We manage our business to achieve our long-term financial targets, which we expect to accomplish on average and over time. These financial targets include:



•low single digit annual revenue growth percentage,



•adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 10 to 20 basis points annually, and



•return of capital in excess of operating needs.



Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure described in more detail in “Non-GAAP Measures” below.



-21-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements. These managers carefully monitor performance by constantly evaluating risks and opportunities. Through each program life cycle, managers review performance and update estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available. For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.



We evaluate our results of operations by considering the drivers causing changes in revenues, operating income and operating cash flows. Given that revenues fluctuate on our contract portfolio over time due to contract awards and completions, changes in customer requirements, and increases or decreases in ordering volume of materials, we evaluate significant trends and fluctuations in these terms. Whether performed by our employees or by our subcontractors, we primarily provide services and, as a result, our cost of revenues are predominantly variable. We also analyze our cost mix (labor, subcontractor or materials) in order to understand operating margin because programs with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable. Changes in costs of revenues as a percentage of revenue other than from revenue volume or cost mix are normally driven by fluctuations in shared or corporate costs or cumulative revenue adjustments due to changes in estimates.



Changes in operating cash flows are described with regard to changes in cash generated through the delivery of services, significant drivers of fluctuations in assets or liabilities and the impacts of changes in timing of cash receipts or disbursements.



Results of Operations



The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenues, operating income, and cash flows from operating activities. The following table summarizes our results of operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenues. Revenues increased $37 million or 3.4% for the three months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($31 million) and revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and other federal civilian agencies ($24 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($18 million).



Revenues increased $109 million or 5.0% for the six months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ($71 million) and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($95 million). These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($57 million).



Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues increased $24 million for the three months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.8% in the prior year quarter to 90.0%, driven by improved performance across our portfolio, the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, the absence of restructuring costs incurred in fiscal 2018 ($2 million), and higher net favorable changes in estimates on contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method ($1 million).



-22-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Cost of revenues increased $91 million for the six months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 91.1% in the prior year period to 90.7% primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio, the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, the absence of restructuring costs incurred in fiscal 2018 ($2 million), and lower net unfavorable changes in estimates on contracts accounted for under the percentage-of-completion method ($1 million).



Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. SG&A decreased $2 million for the three months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to lower facilities costs and other indirect expenses as we continue to drive cost efficiencies across the enterprise.



SG&A remained consistent for the six months ended August 3, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year. In fiscal 2018, we realized a gain from the reversal of a vacancy reserve (net of higher facilities consolidation expense) ($6 million), and in fiscal 2019 we settled claims against the indemnification escrow balance established when Scitor was acquired ($6 million).



Operating Income. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.6% for the three months ended August 3, 2018 from 5.5% in the comparable prior year period, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.



Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.1% for the six months ended August 3, 2018 from 5.6% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.



Net Income. Net income for the three months ended August 3, 2018 increased $13 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income.



Net income for the six months ended August 3, 2018 increased $13 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $76 million for the six months ended August 3, 2018, an increase of $23 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher customer collections, partially offset by an increase in working capital investments in platform integration programs.



Non-GAAP Measures



EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding restructuring costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance. The restructuring costs excluded relate to the Company's plan in fiscal 2018 to restructure certain aspects of its operations and is the only significant restructuring since we began operating as an independent company almost five years ago. 



While we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures may be useful in evaluating our financial information, it should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Other companies may define similar measures differently.



We believe that EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA provide management and investors with useful information in assessing trends in our ongoing operating performance and may provide greater visibility in understanding the long-term financial performance of the Company.



-23-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented were calculated as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended August 3, 2018 increased to 7.5% of revenues from 6.7% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.



Adjusted EBITDA for the six months ended August 3, 2018 increased to 7.0% of revenues from 6.6% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018.



Other Key Performance Measures



In addition to the financial measures described above, we believe that bookings and backlog are useful measures for management and investors to evaluate our potential future revenues. We also consider measures such as contract types and cost of revenues mix to be useful for management and investors to evaluate our operating income and performance.



Net Bookings and Backlog. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts. We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.



Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed. We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts. Given that much of our revenue is derived from IDIQ contract task orders that renew annually, bookings on these contracts tend to refresh annually as the task orders are renewed. Additionally, we do not include in backlog contract awards that are under protest until the protest is resolved in our favor.



We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows:



•Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years. Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.



-24-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



•Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.



We expect to recognize revenue from a substantial portion of our funded backlog within the next twelve months. However, the U.S. government can adjust the scope of services of or cancel contracts at any time. Similarly, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel prior to contract completion. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees (contract profit) for work performed.



The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates presented was:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We had net bookings worth an estimated $1.5 billion and $2.5 billion during the three and six months ended August 3, 2018, respectively. Total backlog at the end of the second quarter is consistent with our total backlog at prior year end.



Contract Types. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract. For a discussion of the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see “Contract Types” in Part I of the most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our contract mix for the six months ended August 3, 2018 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due to newly awarded contracts supporting federal civilian agencies and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.



-25-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Cost of Revenues Mix. We generate revenues by providing a customized mix of services to our customers. The profit generated from our service contracts is affected by the proportion of cost of revenues incurred from the efforts of our employees (which we refer to below as labor-related cost of revenues), the efforts of our subcontractors and the cost of materials used in the performance of our service obligations under our contracts. Contracts performed with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable. The following table presents changes in cost mix for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cost of revenues mix for the three and six months ended August 3, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



As a services provider, our business generally requires minimal infrastructure investment. We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $200 million Revolving Credit Facility.



We anticipate that our future cash needs will be for working capital, capital expenditures, and contractual and other commitments. We consider various financial measures when we develop and update our capital deployment strategy, which includes evaluating cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow and financial leverage. When our cash generation enables us to exceed our target average minimum cash balance of $150 million, we intend to deploy excess cash through dividends, share repurchases, debt prepayments or strategic acquisitions.



Our ability to fund these needs will depend, in part, on our ability to generate cash in the future, which depends on our future financial results. Our future results are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors that may be outside of our direct control. Although we believe that the financing arrangements in place will permit us to finance our operations on acceptable terms and conditions for at least the next year, our future access to, and the availability of financing on acceptable terms and conditions will be impacted by many factors (including our credit rating, capital market liquidity and overall economic conditions). Therefore, we cannot ensure that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such financing will be available at all. Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.



Historical Cash Flow Trends



The following table summarizes our cash flows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the six months ended August 3, 2018 and the comparable prior year period.



-26-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Net Cash Used in Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities for the six months ended August 3, 2018 increased compared to the prior year period due to higher capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment.



Net Cash Used in Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities for the six months ended August 3, 2018 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decrease in stock repurchased and retired or withheld for taxes on equity awards, partially offset by higher term loan principal payments. No plan share repurchases were made during the quarter as we evaluated alternative capital deployment opportunities, including the pending acquisition of Engility.



Contractual Obligations



We have entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that will be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of our Assault Amphibious Vehicle (AAV) contract with the United States Marine Corps. In order to meet our anticipated commitments for the LRIP phase we committed to purchasing these materials, including materials required to complete a portion of the LRIP phase which we had not yet been awarded. Our total commitment on the portion of the LRIP phase which has not yet been awarded is approximately $42 million as of August 3, 2018, of which we have made $6 million in total payments, which is included in inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets on our condensed and consolidated balance sheets. 



Subsequent to the end of the quarter, on August 27, 2018, we received a stop-work order from the Marine Corps. The stop-work order suspends performance on portions of the LRIP phase for a period of 90 days while the Marine Corps evaluates the AAV program to determine if it will continue, in full or in part, or be canceled. If the stop-work order is not lifted, or portions of the LRIP phase of the program are not awarded as planned or the program is canceled we may not be able to recover all of the costs associated with these orders, which could adversely affect our future profitability. We continue to negotiate with the Marine Corps and our vendors to minimize the impact of the stop-work order to our results of operations.



Other than this update, there have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as reported in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Critical Accounting Policies



Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our condensed and consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies, as well as the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, gains and losses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and assumptions have been prepared on the basis of the most current reasonably available information and, in some cases, are our basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and assumptions may change in the future as more current information is available.



Management believes that our critical accounting policies are those that are both material to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments. Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. 



Revenue Recognition. We generate our revenues primarily from long-term contracts in which we provide technical, engineering and enterprise IT services directly for the U.S. government and as a subcontractor with other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government. We evaluate the nature of the contract and the services provided when determining the accounting method utilized for each contract. We recognize a significant portion of our revenues using a cost input measure of progress that requires us to rely on the skill and expertise of our engineers, program managers and business management professionals in the many areas of cost estimation. These estimates of costs can span several years and take into account many factors including the availability, productivity and cost of labor, potential delays in our performance and the level of future indirect cost allocations. 



We provide for anticipated losses on long-term production type contracts and service contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected contract loss during the period when the loss is determined. Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts (including allocated indirect costs) are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations with government representatives. Revenues on U.S. government contracts have been recorded in amounts that are expected to be realized on final settlement.



-27-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Many of our contracts include forms of variable consideration such as reimbursable costs, award and incentive fees, usage-based pricing, service-level penalties, performance bonuses, and other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price. Variable amounts generally are determined upon our achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and may be based upon customer discretion. At contract inception, we estimate the transaction price and may include variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved. When developing these estimates, we consider the customer, contract terms, the complexity of the work and related risks, the extent of customer discretion, historical experience and the potential of a significant reversal of revenue.



Other than the item described above, there have been no changes to our existing critical accounting policies during the six months ended August 3, 2018 from those disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



For information on recently issued but not yet adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.



