 Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  



SIMULATIONS PLUS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 



 3  



SIMULATIONS PLUS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 



For the three months ended November 30, 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 



 4  



SIMULATIONS PLUS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



For the three months ended November 30, 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 



 5  



Simulations Plus, Inc.  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



November 30, 2018 and 2017 



(Unaudited) 



NOTE 1: GENERAL 



This report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2018, should be read in conjunction with the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on November 14, 2018. As contemplated by the SEC under Article 8 of Regulation S-X, the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been condensed and therefore do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles. The interim financial data are unaudited; however, in the opinion of Simulations Plus, Inc. ("we", "our", "us"), the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods. Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those to be expected for the full year. 



Organization 



Simulations Plus, Inc. (“Simulations Plus”, “Lancaster”) was incorporated on July 17, 1996. On September 2, 2014, Simulations Plus, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Cognigen Corporation (“Cognigen”, “Buffalo”) and Cognigen became a wholly owned subsidiary of Simulations Plus, Inc. Simulations Plus, Inc., acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017. On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. (Collectively, “Company”, “we”, “us”, “our”) 



Lines of Business 



The Company designs and develops pharmaceutical simulation software to promote cost-effective solutions to a number of problems in pharmaceutical research and in the education of pharmacy and medical students, and it provides consulting services to the pharmaceutical and chemical industries. Recently, the Company has begun to explore developing software applications for defense and for health care outside of the pharmaceutical industry. 



NOTE 2: SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 



Principles of Consolidation 



The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Simulations Plus, Inc. and, as of September 2, 2014, its wholly owned subsidiary, Cognigen Corporation, and as of June 1, 2017, the accounts of DILIsym Services, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. 



Estimates 



Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by management’s application of accounting policies. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, accounting for capitalized computer software development costs, valuation of stock options, and accounting for income taxes. 



Reclassifications 



Certain numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation. 



 6  



Revenue Recognition 



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09 and its related amendments regarding Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The standard provides principles for recognizing revenue for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers with the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of incremental costs related to obtaining customer contracts. We adopted ASC Topic 606, effective September 1, 2018, utilizing the modified retrospective method. This approach was applied to contracts that were in process as of September 1, 2018, and the corresponding incremental costs of obtaining those contracts, which resulted in a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings at the date of adoption. The adoption of this ASU primarily impacts the timing of our revenue recognition for certain sales contracts, the capitalization and amortization of incremental costs of obtaining a contract, and related disclosures. The reported results for fiscal year 2019 reflect the application of ASC Topic 606, while the reported results for fiscal year 2018 are not adjusted and continue to be reported under ASC Topic 605. 



We generate revenue primarily from the sale of software licenses and providing consulting services to the pharmaceutical industry for drug development. 



The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Deferred Commissions 



Sales commissions earned by our sales force and our commissioned sales representatives are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Sales commissions for new contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit. We determined the period of benefit by taking into consideration our customer contracts, our technology and other factors. Sales commissions for renewal contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the related contractual renewal period. Amortization expense is included in sales and marketing expenses on the condensed consolidated statements of operations. 



We apply the practical expedient in ASC Topic 606 to expense costs as incurred for sales commissions when the period of benefit would have been one year or less. Most of our contracts are of a duration of one year or less, few, if any of the longer-term contracts have commissions associated with them. 



Practical Expedients and Exemptions 



The Company has elected the following additional practical expedients in applying Topic 606: 



 • Commission Expense: We apply the practical expedient in ASC Topic 606 to expense costs as incurred for sales commissions when the period of benefit is one year or less. Most of our contracts are of a duration of one year or less, few, if any of the longer term contracts have commissions associated with them.  



 •  



Transaction Price Allocated to Future Performance Obligations 



ASC 606 requires that the Company disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price that is allocated to performance obligations that have not yet been satisfied as of August 31, 2018. ASC 606 provides certain practical expedients that limit the requirement to disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations. 



The Company applied the practical expedient to not disclose the amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations when the performance obligation is part of a contract that has an original expected duration of one year or less.  



 7  



Cash and Cash Equivalents 



For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 



Accounts Receivable 



We analyze the age of customer balances, historical bad-debt experience, customer creditworthiness, and changes in customer payment terms when making estimates of the collectability of the Company’s trade accounts receivable balances. If we determine that the financial conditions of any of its customers deteriorated, whether due to customer-specific or general economic issues, an increase in the allowance may be made. Accounts receivable are written off when all collection attempts have failed. 



Capitalized Computer Software Development Costs 



Software development costs are capitalized in accordance with ASC 985-20, “Costs of Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Marketed”. Capitalization of software development costs begins upon the establishment of technological feasibility and is discontinued when the product is available for sale. 



The establishment of technological feasibility and the ongoing assessment for recoverability of capitalized software development costs require considerable judgment by management with respect to certain external factors including, but not limited to, technological feasibility, anticipated future gross revenues, estimated economic life, and changes in software and hardware technologies. Capitalized software development costs are comprised primarily of salaries and direct payroll-related costs and the purchase of existing software to be used in our software products. 



Amortization of capitalized software development costs is calculated on a product-by-product basis on the straight-line method over the estimated economic life of the products (not to exceed five years). Amortization of software development costs amounted to $339,073 and $285,310 for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expect future amortization expense to vary due to increases in capitalized computer software development costs. 



We test capitalized computer software development costs for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. 



Property and Equipment 



Property and equipment are recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Maintenance and minor replacements are charged to expense as incurred. Gains and losses on disposals are included in the results of operations. 



Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets 



The Company performs valuations of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on each acquisition accounted for as a business combination and recognizes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair value. Acquired intangible assets include customer relationships, software, trade names, and non-compete agreements. The Company determines the appropriate useful life by performing an analysis of expected cash flows based on historical experience of the acquired businesses. Intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method, which approximates the pattern in which the majority of the economic benefits are expected to be consumed. 



 8  



Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the acquired net assets. Goodwill is not amortized, instead it is tested for impairment annually or when events or circumstances change that would indicate that goodwill might be impaired. Events or circumstances that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, a loss of key personnel, significant changes in the manner of the Company's use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the Company's overall business, significant negative industry or economic trends, or significant under-performance relative to expected historical or projected future results of operations. 



Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is one level below or the same as an operating segment. As of November 30, 2018, the Company determined that it has three reporting units, Simulations Plus, Cognigen Corporation, and DILIsym Services, Inc. When testing goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform step one of a two-step annual goodwill impairment test for each reporting unit. The Company is required to perform step one only if it concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying value. Should this be the case, the first step of the two-step process is to identify whether a potential impairment exists by comparing the estimated fair values of the Company's reporting units with their respective book values, including goodwill. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds book value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired, and no additional steps are necessary. If, however, the fair value of the reporting unit is less than book value, then the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The amount of the impairment loss is the excess of the carrying amount of the goodwill over its implied fair value. The estimate of implied fair value of goodwill is primarily based on an estimate of the discounted cash flows expected to result from that reporting unit, but may require valuations of certain internally generated and unrecognized intangible assets such as the Company's software, technology, patents, and trademarks. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. 



As of November 30, 2018, the entire balance of goodwill was attributed to two of the Company's reporting units, Cognigen Corporation and DILIsym Services. Intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. There were no changes to goodwill, nor has the Company recognized any impairment charges, during the three months’ periods ended November 30, 2018 and 2017. 



Business Acquisitions 



The Company accounted for the acquisition of Cognigen and DILIsym Services, Inc., using the purchase method of accounting where the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized based on their respective estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of certain acquired assets and liabilities is subjective in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the selection of appropriate valuation methodology, projected revenue, expenses and cash flows, weighted average cost of capital, discount rates, estimates of advertiser and publisher turnover rates, and estimates of terminal values. Business acquisitions are included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of the date of the acquisition. 



Fair Value of Financial Instruments 



Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Condensed Balance Sheets are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value. The categories, as defined by the standard are as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 9  



For certain of our financial instruments, including accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued payroll and other expenses, accrued bonus to officer, and accrued warranty and service costs, the amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities. 



The following table summarizes fair value measurements at November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018 for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis: 



November 30, 2018: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



August 31, 2018: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, the Company has a liability for contingent consideration related to its acquisition of the DILIsym Services, Inc. The fair value measurement of the contingent consideration obligations is determined using Level 3 inputs. The fair value of contingent consideration obligations is based on a discounted cash flow model using a probability-weighted income approach. These fair value measurements represent Level 3 measurements as they are based on significant inputs not observable in the market. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of these assumptions as of the acquisition date and for each subsequent period. Accordingly, changes in assumptions could have a material impact on the amount of contingent consideration expense the Company records in any given period. Changes in the value of the contingent consideration obligations are recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. 



The following is a reconciliation of contingent consideration value. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Research and Development Costs 



Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred until technological feasibility has been established. These costs include salaries, laboratory experiment, and purchased software which was developed by other companies and incorporated into, or used in the development of, our final products. 



Income Taxes 



The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740-10, “Income Taxes” which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. 



Under this method, deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences in future years of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts at each year-end based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The provision for income taxes represents the tax payable for the period and the change during the period in deferred tax assets and liabilities. 



 10  



Intellectual property 



On February 28, 2012, we bought out the royalty agreement with Enslein Research of Rochester, New York. The cost of $75,000 is being amortized over 10 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for each of the three-month periods ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 was $1,875. Accumulated amortization as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018 was $50,625 and $48,750, respectively. 



On May 15, 2014, we entered into a termination and nonassertion agreement with TSRL, Inc., pursuant to which the parties agreed to terminate an exclusive software licensing agreement entered into between the parties in 1997. As a result, the company obtained a perpetual right to use certain source code and data, and TSRL relinquished any rights and claims to any GastroPlus products and to any claims to royalties or other payments under that 1997 agreement. We agreed to pay TSRL total consideration of $6,000,000, which is being amortized over 10 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for each of the three-month periods ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 was $150,000. Accumulated amortization as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018 was $2,725,000 and $2,575,000, respectively. 



On June 1, 2017, as part of the acquisition of DILIsym Services, Inc. the Company acquired certain developed technologies associated with the drug induced liver disease (DILI). These technologies were valued at $2,850,000 and are being amortized over 9 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 was $79,167 and is included in cost of revenues. Accumulated amortization as of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018 was $475,000 and $395,833, respectively. 



In September 2018, we purchased certain intellectual property rights of Entelos Holding Company, a Delaware Corporation. The cost of $50,000 is being amortized over 10 years under the straight-line method. Amortization expense for the three-month period ended November 30, 2018 was $1,250. Accumulated amortization as of November 30, 2018 was $1,250. 



Total amortization expense for intellectual property agreements for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 was $321,667 and $320,417, respectively. Accumulated amortization as of November 30, 2018 was $3,251,876 and $3,019,583 as of August 31, 2018. 



Intangible assets 



The following table summarizes those intangible assets as of November 30, 2018: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Amortization expense for each of the three month periods ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 was $89,375, respectively. According to policy in addition to normal amortization, these assets are tested for impairment as needed. 



 11  



Earnings per Share 



We report earnings per share in accordance with FASB ASC 260-10. Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares available. Diluted earnings per share is computed similar to basic earnings per share except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential common shares had been issued and if the additional common shares were dilutive. The components of basic and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Stock-Based Compensation 



Compensation costs related to stock options are determined in accordance with FASB ASC 718-10, “Compensation-Stock Compensation”, using the modified prospective method. Under this method, compensation cost is calculated based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with FASB ASC 718-10, amortized on a straight-line basis over the options’ vesting period. Stock-based compensation was $200,029 and $130,221 for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This expense is included in the condensed consolidated statements of operations as Selling, General, and Administration (SG&A), and Research and Development expense. 



Impairment of Long-lived Assets 



The Company accounts for the impairment and disposition of long-lived assets in accordance with ASC 350, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other” and ASC 360, “Property and Equipment”. Long-lived assets to be held and used are reviewed for events or changes in circumstances that indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to the expected future undiscounted net cash flows generated by the asset. If we determine that the asset may not be recoverable, or if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, we recognize an impairment charge to the extent of the difference between the fair value and the asset's carrying amount. No impairment losses were recorded during the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017. 



Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



In May 2014, the Franchise Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09). The standard will eliminate the transaction- and industry-specific revenue recognition guidance under current generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP) and replace it with a principles-based approach for determining revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted for years beginning after December 15, 2016. The revenue recognition standard is required to be applied retrospectively, including any combination of practical expedients as allowed in the standard. We are evaluating the impact, if any, of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 to our financial statements and related disclosures. The Company has not yet selected a transition method nor has it determined the effect of the standard on its ongoing financial reporting. 



 12  



In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740) (“ASU 2015-17). The amendments in ASU 2015-17 change the requirements for the classification of deferred taxes on the balance sheet. Currently, GAAP requires an entity to separate deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in a classified statement of financial position. To simplify the presentation of deferred income taxes, the amendments in this ASU require that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. The pronouncement is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016. Earlier application is permitted for all entities as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period. The Company has early adopted this pronouncement for the fiscal reporting period ended August 31, 2017 because it reduced complexity while maintaining the usefulness of the information. The retrospective application resulted in a reclassification of the current deferred tax asset at August 31, 2016 now being presented against the long term deferred tax liability. 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes existing guidance on accounting for leases in "Leases (Topic 840)" and generally requires all leases to be recognized in the consolidated balance sheet. ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018; early adoption is permitted. The provisions of ASU 2016-02 are to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements. 



In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09). This ASU affects entities that issue share-based payment awards to their employees. The ASU is designed to simplify several aspects of accounting for share-based payment award transactions which include - the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeiture rate calculations. ASU 2016-09 will become effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period. The Company early adopted ASU No. 2016-09. The adoption had no material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 



In April 2016, the FASB issued AS 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which amends certain aspects of the Board's new revenue standard, ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The standard should be adopted concurrently with adoption of ASU 2014-09 which is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017.  



NOTE 3. REVENUE RECOGNITION 



The Company adopted Topic 606 effective September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method applying this guidance to all open contracts at the date of initial application, which resulted in an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect of applying this guidance. The most significant impact of Topic 606 on revenue to the Company relates to the timing of revenue recognition for one of its payment contracts. Under 606 the revenues under the contract are being recognized as time is expended and costs are being expensed as incurred. Under ASC 605 revenues were recognized as invoiced and certain costs were capitalized as development. 



We generate revenue primarily from the sale of software licenses and providing consulting services to the pharmaceutical industry for drug development. 



The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 13  



The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. Contracts generally have fixed pricing terms and are not subject to variable pricing. The Company considers the nature and significance of each specific performance obligation under a contract when allocating the proceeds under each contract. Accounting for contracts includes significant judgement in the estimation of estimated hours/cost to be incurred on consulting contracts, and the di minimis nature of the post sales costs associated with software sales. 



Components of revenue 



The following is a description of principal activities from which the Company generates revenue. As part of the accounting for these arrangements, the Company must develop assumptions that require judgment to determine the stand-alone selling price for each performance obligation identified in the contract. Stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells its services or goods. 



 Revenue Components  Typical payment terms 



Software Revenues: 



Software revenues are generated primarily from sales of software licenses at the time the software is unlock and the term commences. The license period typically is one year or less. Along with the license a di minimis amount of customer support is provided to assist the customer with the software. Should the customer need more than a di minimis amount of support they can choose to enter in to a separate contract for additional training. Most software is installed on our customers servers and the Company has no control of the software once the sale is made. 



For certain software arrangements the Company hosts the licenses on servers maintained by the Company, revenue for those arrangements are accounted as Software as a Service over the life of the contract. These arrangements are a small portion of software revenues of the Company.  



Payments are generally due upon invoicing on a net 30 basis unless other payment terms are negotiated with the customer based on customer history. Typical industry standards apply. 



Consulting Contracts:  



Consulting services provided to our customers are generally recognized over time as the contracts are performed and the services are rendered. The company measures its consulting revenue based on time expended compared to total hours to complete a project. The Company believes the methods chosen for its contract revenue best depicts the transfer of benefits to the customer under the contracts.  



Payment terms vary, depending on the size of the contract, credit history and history with the client and deliverables within the contract. 



Consortium Member Based Services: 



The performance obligation is recognized on a time elapsed basis, by month, for which the services are provided, as the Company transfers control evenly over the contractual period.  



Payment is due at the beginning of the period, generally on a net 30 or 60 basis.  



Remaining performance obligations that do not fall under the expedients require the Company to perform various consulting and software development services and consortium memberships of approximately $3,300,000. It is anticipated these revenues will be recognized within the next two and ½ years. 



 14  



Contract liabilities 



During the period ended November 30, 2018 the Company recognized $433,500 of revenue that was included in contract liabilities as of August 31, 2018.  



Disaggregation of Revenues 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following table summarizes the adjustments made to accounts on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 1, 2018 as a result of applying the modified retrospective method to adopt ASC Topic 606:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following tables present the amount by which each condensed consolidated financial statement line item is affected as of and for the three months ended November 30, 2018 by ASC Topic 606:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 15  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NOTE 4: Property and Equipment 



Property and equipment as of November 30, 2018 consisted of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NOTE 5: CONTRACTS PAYABLE 



DILIsym Acquisition Liabilities: 



On June 1, 2017, the Company acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. The agreement provided for a working capital adjustment, an eighteen-month $1,000,000 holdback provision against certain representations and warranties, and an Earn-out agreement of up to an additional $5,000,000 in Earn-out payments based on earnings over three years. The Earn-out liability has been recorded at an estimated fair value. Payments under the Earn-out liability started in FY 2019. The first payment of $1,566,644 was made in September 2018, the holdback payment was made in December 2018. It is estimated that approximately 40% of the original Earn-out liability will be paid in the second year and the remainder of the Earn-out will be paid in the following year. 



As of November 30, 2018 and August, 31, 2018 the following liabilities have been recorded: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 16  



NOTE 6: COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 



Leases 



We lease approximately 13,500 square feet of space in Lancaster, California. The original lease had a five-year term with two, three-year options to extend. The initial five-year term expired in February 2011, and we extended the lease to February 2, 2014. In June 2013, the lease was amended to extend the term to February 2, 2017. The amended lease also provides for an annual base rent increase of 3% per year and two, two-year options to extend. In May 2016 the Company exercised the two, two-year options extending the term of the lease through February 2, 2021 at a fixed rate of $25,000 per month. The new extension agreement allowed the Company with 90 days’ notice to opt out of the remaining lease in the last two years of the term upon payment of a recapture payment equal to the 3% base payment increase that would have been due under the original agreement. 



Our Buffalo subsidiary leases approximately 12,623 square feet of space in Buffalo, New York. The initial five-year term expired in October 2018, and was renewed for a three year option to extending it to October 2021. The new base rent is $16,147 per month. 



In September 2017 DILIsym service signed a three-year lease for approximately 1,900 rentable square feet of space in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The initial three-year term expires in October 2020. The initial base rent is $3,975 per month with an annual 3% adjustment. Prior to this lease DILIsym was on a month-to-month rental. 



Rent expense, including common area maintenance fees for the three months ended November 30, 2018, and 2017 was $144,012, and $135,877, respectively. 



Employment Agreements 



In the normal course of business, the Company has entered into employment agreements with certain of its key management personnel that may require compensation payments upon termination. 



License Agreement 



The Company has a royalty agreement with Dassault Systèmes Americas Corp. for access to their Metabolite Database for developing our Metabolite Module within ADMET Predictor™. The module was renamed the Metabolism Module when we released ADMET Predictor version 6 on April 19, 2012. Under this agreement, we pay a royalty of 25% of revenue derived from the sale of the Metabolism/Metabolite module. Under this agreement, we pay a royalty of 25% of revenue derived from the sale of the Metabolism/Metabolite module. We incurred royalty expense of $38,109 and $35,897, respectively, for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 



Income taxes 



We follow guidance issued by the FASB with regard to our accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. Such guidance prescribes a recognition threshold of more likely than not and a measurement process for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. In making this assessment, a company must determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, based solely on the technical merits of the position and must assume that the tax position will be examined by taxing authorities. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Interest and penalties totaled $-0- for fiscal year 2018 We file income tax returns with the IRS and various state jurisdictions and India. Our federal income tax returns for fiscal year 2012 thru 2013 and 2015 are open for audit, and our state tax returns for fiscal year 2011 through 2015 remain open for audit. In addition, our California tax return for the fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2008 remains open with regard to R&D tax credits as a result of a previous audit for which we received a letter from the California Franchise Tax Board stating that an audit will not be conducted for those years at this time; however it may be subject to future audit. 



Our review of prior year tax positions using the criteria and provisions presented in guidance issued by FASB did not result in a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. 



 17  



Litigation 



From time to time, we may be involved in routine legal proceedings, as well as demands, claims and threatened litigation, which arise in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of legal proceedings, particularly complex legal proceedings, cannot be predicted with any certainty. 



We are not a party to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending legal proceedings of any kind. 



NOTE 7: SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 



Dividend 



The Company’s Board of Directors declared cash dividends during fiscal years 2019 and 2018. The details of the dividends paid are in the following tables: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Stock Option Plan 



In September 1996, the Board of Directors adopted, and the shareholders approved, the 1996 Stock Option Plan (the "Option Plan") under which a total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock had been reserved for issuance. In March 1999, the shareholders approved an increase in the number of shares that may be granted under the Option Plan to 2,000,000. In February 2000, the shareholders approved an increase in the number of shares that may be granted under the Option Plan to 4,000,000. In December 2000, the shareholders approved an increase in the number of shares that may be granted under the Option Plan to 5,000,000. Furthermore, in February 2005, the shareholders approved an additional 1,000,000 shares, resulting in the total number of shares that may be granted under the Option Plan to 6,000,000. The 1996 Stock Option Plan terminated in September 2006 by its term. 



On February 23, 2007, the Board of Directors adopted and the shareholders approved the 2007 Stock Option Plan under which a total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock had been reserved for issuance. On February 25, 2014 the shareholders approved an additional 1,000,000 shares increasing the total number of shares that may be granted under the Option Plan to 2,000,000. This plan terminated in February 2017 by its term. 



 18  



On December 23, 2016 the Board of Directors adopted, and on February 23, 2017 the shareholders approved, the 2017 Equity Incentive Plan under which a total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock has been reserved for issuance. This plan will terminate in December 2026. 



As of November 30, 2018, employees and directors hold Qualified Incentive Stock Options and Non-Qualified Stock Options to purchase 1,080,846 shares of common stock at exercise prices ranging from $1.00 to $23.75. 



The following table summarizes information about stock options: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The weighted-average remaining contractual life of options outstanding issued under the Plan, both Qualified ISO and Non-Qualified SO, was 7.04 years at November 30, 2018. The exercise prices for the options outstanding at November 30, 2018 ranged from $1.00 to $23.75, and the information relating to these options is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



During the period ended November 30, 2018 the company issues 2,222 shares of stock to non-management directors of the Company valued at $44,904 as compensation for services rendered to the Company. 



 19  



NOTE 8: CONCENTRATIONS AND UNCERTAINTIES 



Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentration of credit risk consist principally of cash, cash equivalents, and trade accounts receivable. The Company holds cash and cash equivalents at banks located in California and North Carolina with balances that often exceed FDIC insured limits. Historically, the Company has not experienced any losses in such accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant credit risk on cash and cash equivalents. However, considering the current banking environment, the Company is investigating alternative ways to minimize its exposure to such risks. While the Company may be exposed to credit losses due to the nonperformance of its counterparties, the Company does not expect the settlement of these transactions to have a material effect on its results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. The Company maintains cash at financial institutions that may, at times, exceed federally insured limits. At November 30, 2018 the Company had cash and cash equivalents exceeding insured limits by $8,273,000. 



Revenue concentration shows that international sales accounted for 35% and 31.8% of net sales for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Four customers accounted for 13%, 9%, 7%, and 6% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers) of net sales during the three months ended November 30, 2018. Four customers accounted for 7%, 7% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers), 6% and 6% of net sales during the three months ended November 30, 2017. 



Accounts receivable concentration shows that six customers comprised 15%, 7%, 7% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers), 6%, and 6% of accounts receivable at November 30, 2018. Accounts receivable concentration shows that six customers comprised 18%, 8%, 8% (a dealer account in Japan representing various customers), 7%, 6%, and 5% of accounts receivable at November 30, 2017. 



We operate in the computer software industry, which is highly competitive and changes rapidly. Our operating results could be significantly affected by our ability to develop new products and find new distribution channels for new and existing products. 



The majority of our customers are in the pharmaceutical industry. Consolidation and downsizing in the pharmaceutical industry could have an impact on our revenues and earnings going forward. 



NOTE 9: SEGMENT AND Geographic Reporting 



We account for segments and geographic revenues in accordance with guidance issued by the FASB. Our reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services. 



Results for each segment and consolidated results are as follows for the three ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands, because of rounding numbers may not foot): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Acquired June 1, 2017 



 20  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Acquired June 1, 2017  



In addition, the Company allocates revenues to geographic areas based on the locations of its customers. Geographical revenues for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands, because of rounding numbers may not foot): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NOTE 10: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN 



We maintain a 401(K) Plan for all eligible employees, and we make matching contributions equal to 100% of the employee’s elective deferral, not to exceed 4% of total employee compensation. We can also elect to make a profit-sharing contribution. Our contributions to this Plan amounted to $86,940 and $71,381 for the three months ended November 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 



NOTE 11- SUBSEQUENT EVENT 



On January 8, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share to our shareholders. The dividend will be distributed on Friday February 1, 2019, for shareholders of record as of Friday January 25, 2019. 



 21  



 Item 1. Legal Proceedings  



We are not a party to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending legal proceedings of any kind.  



 Item 1A. Risk Factors  



Please carefully consider the information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the risk factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the trading price of shares of our Common Stock. Additional risks not currently known or currently material to us may also harm our business. 



