PART II  



OTHER INFORMATION  



 ITEM 1.  



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  



For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements - Note 14. Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 ITEM 1A.  



RISK FACTORS  



There have been no material changes to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2018. In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as they could materially affect our business, financial condition and future results.  



39  



Table of Contents 



The Risk Factors are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.  



 ITEM 2.  



UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS  



Repurchase of Equity Securities  



All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.  



On October 29, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $2.3 billion of its outstanding ordinary shares. As of December 28, 2018, $2.9 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit. There is no expiration date on this authorization.  



The following table sets forth information with respect to all repurchases of our shares made during the fiscal quarter ended December 28, 2018, including statutory tax withholdings related to vesting of employee equity awards:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



Repurchase of shares including tax withholdings.  



 ITEM 3.  



DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES  



None.  



 ITEM 4.  



MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  



Not applicable.  



 ITEM 5.  



OTHER INFORMATION  



Effective February 5, 2019, Gianluca Romano, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will also serve as principal accounting officer replacing Geraldine Hottier-Fayon who had been serving as the Company’s interim principal accounting officer.  



40  



Table of Contents 



 ITEM 6.  



EXHIBITS  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 +  



Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.  



 †  



The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Seagate Technology plc under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-Q, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.  



41  



Table of Contents 



