PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 



From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental hazards, product liability and warranty, safety and health, employment and contractual matters.



The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company’s business and have demanded and may in the future demand that the Company license their technology. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations. From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.



The Company monitors the status of legal proceedings and other contingencies on an ongoing basis to ensure loss contingencies are recognized and/or disclosed in its financial statements and footnotes. The Company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings that are reasonably possible to result in a material loss. The Company is engaged in various legal actions in the normal course of business and, while there can be no assurances, the Company believes the outcome of all pending litigation involving the Company will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its business or financial statements.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in the 2018 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2018 10-K.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 



The following table provides information regarding repurchases of common stock made during the three months ended March 29, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 21

(1) The stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors on January 30, 2019, authorizes the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The January 30, 2019, stock repurchase program replaces in its entirety the January 31, 2018, stock repurchase program. 



(2) Represents shares repurchased by us at the fair market value of the common stock as of the applicable purchase date, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under equity award agreements.



(3) 275,155 shares were repurchased at an average price of $82.05 per share as part of our stock repurchase program, and 6,415 shares were repurchased by us at the fair market value of the common stock as of the applicable purchase date, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under equity award agreements with an average price of $82.23 per share. 



(4) 1,459,835 shares were repurchased at an average price of $81.48 per share as part of our stock repurchase program, and 11,346 shares were repurchased by us at the fair market value of the common stock as of the applicable purchase date, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under equity award agreements with an average price of $83.19 per share.



 22

Item 6. Exhibits. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 23

