PART II. OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 



 20

From time to time, various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been, and may in the future be, instituted or asserted against the Company, including those pertaining to patent infringement, intellectual property, environmental hazards, product liability and warranty, safety and health, employment and contractual matters.



The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to the Company’s business and have demanded and may in the future demand that the Company license their technology. The outcome of any such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some such lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company. Generally speaking, intellectual property disputes often have a risk of injunctive relief, which, if imposed against the Company, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, or results of operations. From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.



The Company monitors the status of legal proceedings and other contingencies on an ongoing basis to ensure loss contingencies are recognized and/or disclosed in its financial statements and footnotes. The Company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings that are reasonably possible to result in a material loss. The Company is engaged in various legal actions in the normal course of business and, while there can be no assurances, the Company believes the outcome of all pending litigation involving the Company will not have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its business.



Item 1A. Risk Factors.



In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors in the 2017 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in the 2017 10-K.



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 



The following table provides information regarding repurchases of common stock made during the three months ended June 29, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) The stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors on January 31, 2018, authorizes the repurchase of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The January 31, 2018, stock repurchase program replaces in its entirety the January 17, 2017, plan.



(2) Represents shares repurchased by us at the fair market value of the common stock as of the applicable purchase date, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under equity award agreements.



(3) 1,462,001 shares were repurchased at an average price of $96.60 per share as part of our stock repurchase program, and 9,334 shares were repurchased by us at the fair market value of the common stock as of the applicable purchase date, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under equity award agreements with an average price of $96.75 per share. 



(4) Represents shares repurchased by us as part of our stock repurchase program. 



On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement. The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party. Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020. The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.



 21

Item 6. Exhibits. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 22

