Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



This report and other documents we have filed with the SEC contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “continue,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “seek,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and similar expressions or variations or negatives of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements of technologies, sales levels, expense levels and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management, such statements can only be based on facts and factors currently known by us. Consequently, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially and adversely from the results and outcomes discussed in or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. A number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those in the forward-looking statements. We urge you to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the 2017 10-K, under the heading “Risk Factors” and in the other documents we have filed with the SEC in evaluating our forward-looking statements. We have no plans, and undertake no obligation, to revise or update our forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We caution readers not to place undue reliance upon any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. 



In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to Skyworks Solutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries and not any other person or entity.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



THREE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 29, 2017, AND DECEMBER 30, 2016



The following table sets forth the results of our operations expressed as a percentage of net revenue:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



OVERVIEW



We, together with our consolidated subsidiaries, are empowering the wireless networking revolution. Our highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.



 12

GENERAL



During the three months ended December 29, 2017, the following key factors contributed to our overall results of operations, financial position and cash flows:



•Net revenue increased by 15% to $1,052 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. This increase in revenue was primarily driven by our success in capturing a higher share of the increasing radio frequency and analog content per device as smartphone models continue to evolve, the increasing number of applications for the Internet of Things, and our expanding analog product portfolio supporting new vertical markets including automotive, industrial, medical and military. 



•Our ending cash and cash equivalents balance increased approximately 4% to $1,682 million as of December 29, 2017, from $1,617 million as of September 29, 2017. This increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $361 million, partially offset by the repurchase of 1.65 million shares of common stock for $173 million, dividend payments of $59 million, and capital expenditures of $28 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017. 



NET REVENUE



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We market and sell our products directly to original equipment manufacturers of communications and electronics products, third-party original design manufacturers and contract manufacturers, and indirectly through electronic components distributors. We generally experience seasonal peaks during the second half of the calendar year, primarily as a result of increased worldwide production of consumer electronics in anticipation of increased holiday sales, whereas our second fiscal quarter is typically lower and in line with seasonal industry trends. 



We generated net revenue of $1,051.9 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, an increase of $137.6 million or 15%, as compared with $914.3 million for the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017. This increase in net revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2017, is primarily related to an increase in demand for our components from a key smartphone customer as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, partially offset by decreases in average selling prices.



GROSS PROFIT



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross profit represents net revenue less cost of goods sold. Our cost of goods sold consists primarily of purchased materials, labor and overhead (including depreciation and share-based compensation expense) associated with product manufacturing. Erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical of the semiconductor industry. As part of our normal course of business, we mitigate the gross margin impact of declining average selling prices with efforts to increase unit volumes, reduce material costs, improve manufacturing efficiencies, lower manufacturing costs of existing products and by introducing new and higher value-added products.



The $72.9 million increase in gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily the result of favorable product mix and higher unit volumes that positively impacted gross profit by $81.2 million. These positive impacts were partially offset by lower average selling prices with a gross profit impact of $8.3 million. Gross profit margin increased to 51.0% of net revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, due to the overall increase in revenue and the aforementioned factors.



 13

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Research and development expenses consist primarily of direct personnel costs including share-based compensation expense, costs for pre-production evaluation and testing of new devices, masks, engineering prototypes and design tool costs.



The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee-related compensation expense and product development– related expenses. Research and development expense increased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017 as a result of our increased investment in developing new product capabilities. 



SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Selling, general and administrative expenses include legal and related costs, accounting, treasury, human resources, information systems, customer service, bad debt expense, sales commissions, share-based compensation expense, advertising, marketing, and costs associated with business combinations completed or contemplated during the period and other costs.



The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily related to an increase in employee compensation. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased as a percentage of net revenue when compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017 primarily due to the increase in net revenue. 



AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease in amortization expense for the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, was primarily due to the end of the useful lives of certain intangible assets that were acquired in prior fiscal years. 



RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 14

There were no new restructuring charges incurred during the three months ended December 29, 2017.



PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We recorded a provision for income taxes of $315.2 million (which consisted of $304.9 million and $10.3 million related to United States and foreign income taxes, respectively) for the three months ended December 29, 2017. 



On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law new tax legislation, which includes, among other things, a reduction of the United States corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, repeal of the corporate alternative minimum tax and the domestic production activities deduction, and expensing of certain capital investments. The new law makes fundamental changes to the taxation of multinational entities, including a shift from worldwide taxation with deferral to a hybrid territorial system, featuring a participation exemption regime, a minimum tax on low-taxed foreign earnings, and new measures to deter base erosion and promote export from the United States. We expect this tax reform to have significant continued impact on our provision for income taxes and are in the process of evaluating the impact.



Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (“SAB 118”), provides a measurement period during which companies may analyze the impacts of newly enacted legislation when the company does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the new legislation, not to exceed one year. In accordance with SAB 118, we have estimated the impact of the new legislation as it pertains to various items, including a one-time charge of $257.8 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings and a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, using the new federal statutory tax rate of 21%. We believe these amounts are reasonable estimates; however these amounts are provisional and are subject to change. Additional time is needed to gather the information necessary to finalize the computations of the impact of the new tax legislation. The changes included in the new tax legislation are broad and complex. The final transition impacts of the new tax legislation may differ from the above estimates, possibly materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the new tax legislation, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the new tax legislation, any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the new tax legislation, or any updates or changes to estimates we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts. SAB 118 would allow for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the new tax legislation to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. We currently anticipate finalizing and recording any resulting adjustments by the end of our current fiscal year ending September 28, 2018.



The reduction of the corporate tax rate to 21% is effective within fiscal year 2018, therefore we are subject to a blended fiscal year 2018 tax rate of approximately 24.6%, which is computed by using the number of days of the fiscal year during which we are subject to the old tax rate of 35% and the number of days we are subject to the newly enacted tax rate of 21%.



The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2017, was 81.7%, as compared with 19.7% for the three months ended December 30, 2016. The difference between our three month effective tax rate of 81.7% and the federal statutory rate of 24.6% resulted primarily from a one-time charge of $257.8 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, a one-time charge of $18.5 million related to the revaluation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities related to tax reform, and an increase in tax expense related to a change in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by foreign earnings taxed at rates lower than the federal statutory rate, the domestic production activities deduction, research and experimentation tax credits earned, and a benefit of $16.2 million related to windfall stock deductions. 



 15

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash flow provided by operating activities:



Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income for the period adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in certain operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended December 29, 2017, we generated $360.8 million of cash from operating activities, a decrease of $135.1 million as compared with the $495.9 million generated during the three months ended December 30, 2016. The decrease in cash flow from operating activities during the three months ended December 29, 2017, was primarily related to a net change in cash outflows of $156.3 million related to a decrease in accounts payable as a result of the timing of vendor payments. 



Cash flow used in investing activities:



Cash used in investing activities consists primarily of cash paid for acquisitions net of cash acquired, capital expenditures, cash received from the sale of capital assets, and cash related to the sale or maturity of investments. Cash used in investing activities was $34.2 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017, as compared with $60.6 million during the three months ended December 30, 2016. The cash used for capital expenditures was $28.2 million, primarily related to the purchase of manufacturing equipment to support the expansion of our assembly and test operations, filter production operations, and wafer fabrication facilities. During the three months ended December 29, 2017, we paid $6.0 million related to purchased intangibles.



Cash flow used in financing activities:



Cash used in financing activities consists primarily of cash transactions related to equity. During the three months ended December 29, 2017, we had net cash outflows from financing activities of $261.9 million, as compared with net cash outflows from financing activities of $168.6 million during the three months ended December 30, 2016. During the three months ended December 29, 2017, we had the following significant uses of cash:



•$172.5 million related to our repurchase of 1.65 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors on January 17, 2017; 



•$59.1 million related to the payment of cash dividends on our common stock; and



•$44.7 million related to the minimum statutory payroll tax withholdings payments on the vesting of employee performance and restricted stock awards.



These uses of cash were partially offset by the net proceeds from employee stock option exercises of $14.4 million during the three months ended December 29, 2017.



Liquidity:



Cash and cash equivalent balances were $1,681.5 million as of December 29, 2017, representing an increase of $64.7 million from September 29, 2017. The increase resulted from $360.8 million in cash generated from operations which was partially offset by $172.5 million used to repurchase 1.65 million shares of stock, $59.1 million in cash dividend payments, $44.7 million used to repurchase shares related to payroll tax withholdings on equity awards, and $28.2 million in capital expenditures. Based on our historical results of operations, we expect that our cash and cash equivalents on hand and the cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to fund our research and development, capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, working capital, quarterly cash dividend payments (if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors), outstanding commitments and other liquidity requirements associated with existing operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot be certain that our cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be available in the future to fund all of our capital and operating requirements. In addition, any future strategic investments and acquisitions may require additional cash and capital resources. If we are unable to obtain sufficient cash or capital to meet our needs on a timely basis and on favorable terms, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected.



 16

Our invested cash balances primarily consist of highly liquid term deposits with original maturities of 90 days or less and money market funds where the underlying securities primarily consist of United States treasury obligations, United States agency obligations and repurchase agreements collateralized by United States government and agency obligations. 



Our cash and cash equivalent balance of $1,681.5 million as of December 29, 2017, consisted of $742.0 million held domestically and $939.5 million held by foreign subsidiaries.



On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program, pursuant to which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. This newly authorized stock repurchase plan replaces in its entirety the aforementioned January 17, 2017 plan. The timing and amount of any shares of the Company’s common stock that are repurchased under the new repurchase program will be determined based on our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. We currently expect to fund the repurchase program using our working capital.



CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS



Our contractual obligations disclosure in the 2017 10-K has not materially changed since we filed that report, except for the $257.8 million deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings, which is payable over the next eight years, $20.6 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $38.7 million, $51.6 million and $64.5 million in years six through eight, respectively.



OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS



We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in SEC Regulation S-K Item- 303(a)(4)(ii). 



