Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results



The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “goal,” “intent,” “momentum,” “projects,” and similar expressions. In addition, projections of our future financial performance; anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries; the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, restructurings, stock repurchases, and investment activities; the outcome or impact of pending litigation, claims or disputes; our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; plans for and anticipated benefits of our solutions; matters arising out of the ongoing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) investigation; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Part II Item 1A, of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully.



OVERVIEW



Symantec Corporation is a global leader in cyber security. We provide cyber security products, services, and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide. 



Our segments consist of:



•Enterprise Security. Our Enterprise Security segment focuses on providing our Integrated Cyber Defense solutions to help business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity. See Subsequent event below and Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.



•Consumer Cyber Safety. Our Consumer Cyber Safety segment focuses on providing cyber safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand to help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks. 



Subsequent event



On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Enterprise Security assets to Broadcom Inc. for $10.7 billion in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. The divestiture of our Enterprise Security business will allow us to shift our operational focus to our Consumer Cyber Safety business. The transaction is expected to close before the end of calendar year 2019, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. See Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the planned divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.



Fiscal calendar



We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. The first quarter of fiscal 2020 consists of 14 weeks, whereas the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consisted of 13 weeks. Our 2020 fiscal year consists of 53 weeks and ends on April 3, 2020.



Key financial metrics



The following tables provide our key financial metrics for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



26

•Net revenues increased 8% primarily due to the favorable impact from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and higher revenue from our Enterprise Security segment products and services that are transferred over time.



•Operating income increased $155 million primarily due to revenue recognized in the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, lower restructuring, transition and other expense, and lower stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by higher operating expenses recognized in the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.



•Net income and net income per share increased primarily due to the higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.



•Net cash provided by operating activities was relatively flat. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 



The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. requires us to make estimates, including judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. Making estimates and judgments about future events is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.



 Our critical accounting policies and estimates were disclosed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019. There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the three months ended July 5, 2019. 



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Percentages may not add due to rounding.



27

Net revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net revenues increased compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily due to approximately $81 million of revenue from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and higher revenue from our Enterprise Security segment products and services that are transferred over time.



Net revenues by geographical region



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Percentages may not add to 100% due to rounding.



The Americas include the U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.



Cost of revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our cost of revenues increased primarily due to a $19 million increase in technical support costs.



Operating expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales and marketing expense increased $7 million primarily due to a $28 million increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $20 million decrease in advertising and promotional expense.



Research and development expense increased $4 million primarily due to an $8 million increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation.



General and administrative expense decreased $25 million primarily due to a $23 million decrease in stock-based compensation, partially offset by a $10 million increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation.



The increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation described above was primarily due to the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.



Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $71 million primarily due to a $75 million decrease in transition related projects costs and an $8 million decrease in other exit and disposal costs, partially offset by a $12 million increase in severance.



28

Non-operating expense, net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Provision for income taxes



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to tax expense related to the Ninth Circuit's recent holding in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, various permanent differences, and state taxes, partially offset by the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit and foreign derived intangible income deduction.



Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit, and foreign derived intangible income deduction, partially offset by tax expense from certain intercompany transactions and various permanent differences.



On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court (Tax Court) issued its opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner and concluded that related parties in a cost sharing arrangement are not required to share expenses related to stock-based compensation. The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit). In June 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the July 2015 decision of the U.S. Tax Court. As a result of this decision, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $62 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. On July 22, 2019, the taxpayer requested a rehearing before the full Ninth Circuit and may subsequently appeal from the Ninth Circuit to the Supreme Court. As a result, the final outcome of the case is uncertain. If the Altera Ninth Circuit Panel Opinion is reversed, we would anticipate recording an income tax benefit at that time.



We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.



The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease, whether by payment, release, or a combination of both, in the next 12 months by $30 million, which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate.



We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.



Segment operating results



We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments. These unallocated expenses primarily consist of stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, transition and other costs, and acquisition-related costs. See Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



29

Enterprise Security Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue increased $55 million primarily due to approximately $37 million of revenue from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and higher revenue from segment products and services that are transferred over time. Operating income decreased $17 million primarily due to higher compensation expenses, higher allocated corporate costs, and higher technical support costs, partially offset by higher revenue.



Consumer Cyber Safety Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue increased $36 million primarily due to approximately $44 million of revenue from the additional week in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Operating income increased $73 million primarily due to higher revenue, lower advertising and promotion costs, and decreased allocated corporate costs.



Performance Metrics



We regularly monitor a number of metrics in order to measure our current performance and estimate our future performance. Our metrics may be calculated in a manner different than similar metrics used by other companies.



The following table summarizes supplemental key performance metrics for our Consumer Cyber Safety segment:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Average direct customer count presents the average of the total number of direct customers at the beginning and end of the fiscal quarter. We define direct customers as those customers in our Consumer Cyber Safety segment who have a direct billing relationship with us, including online acquisition and retention, affiliates, co-marketing, and original contract manufacturer channels. 



ARPU is calculated as estimated direct customer revenues for the period divided by the average direct customer count for the same period, expressed as a monthly figure. For the first quarters of fiscal 2020 and 2019, we estimate direct customer net revenues to be $577 million and $544 million, respectively. To improve comparability, ARPU in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 has been normalized to exclude the impact of the extra week on direct revenues, which we estimate to be approximately $41 million. We monitor APRU because it helps us understand the rate at which we are monetizing our consumer customer base.



LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND CASH REQUIREMENTS 



Liquidity



We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.



As of July 5, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.7 billion, of which $0.5 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns. The participation exemption system under current U.S. federal tax regulations generally allows us to make distributions of non-U.S. earnings to the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal tax, however these distributions may be subject to applicable state or non-U.S. taxes. We have not recognized deferred income taxes for local country income and withholding taxes that could be incurred on distributions of certain non-U.S. earnings or for outside basis differences in our subsidiaries, because we plan to indefinitely reinvest such earnings and basis differences.



We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion which expires in May 2021.



30

Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions. As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.



Our capital allocation strategy is to balance driving stockholder returns, managing financial risk, and preserving our flexibility to pursue strategic options, including acquisitions. Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.



Planned divestiture of Enterprise Security business



On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Enterprise Security assets to Broadcom Inc. for $10.7 billion in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. We are in the process of evaluating the transaction and its impact on our consolidated financial statements, including evaluating the resulting net gain and expenses that will be recognized, based on the terms of the definitive agreement. Our U.S. and foreign income taxes payable resulting from the transaction are estimated to range from $2.3 billion to $2.7 billion. 



Cash flows



The following summarizes our cash flow activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash from operating activities



Our cash flows for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 reflected net income of $26 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $158 million, and stock-based compensation of $80 million, compared to a net loss of $60 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $152 million, and stock-based compensation of $113 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 



Changes in operating assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 consisted primarily of the following:



Accounts receivable decreased $270 million due to seasonally higher collections than billings during the period. Days sales outstanding (DSO) decreased to 34 days in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 39 days in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable by revenue per day for a given quarter.



Contract liabilities decreased $161 million primarily due to higher recognized revenue than billings during the period.



Cash from investing activities



Our investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 included cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $92 million partially offset by capital expenditures of $49 million, while our investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 included cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $64 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $44 million.



Cash from financing activities



Our financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we continued to execute our common stock repurchase program with repurchases of $559 million. In addition, during the period we made tax payments related to the vesting of equity awards of $52 million and payments of dividends and dividend equivalents of $51 million, compared to no common stock repurchases, tax payments related to the vesting of equity awards of $42 million and payments of dividends and dividend equivalents of $60 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. 



Cash requirements



Debt - As of July 5, 2019, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $4.5 billion, summarized as follows. See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



31

Debt covenant compliance. The Senior Term Loan A-5 agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios. As of July 5, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.



Dividends. On August 8, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in September 2019. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. 



Stock repurchases. Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through accelerated stock repurchase transactions, open market transactions (including through trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and privately-negotiated transactions. As of July 5, 2019, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $507 million and does not have an expiration date. On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the authorization to $1.6 billion. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities.



Fiscal 2020 Restructuring Plan. On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a fiscal 2020 restructuring plan to improve productivity and reduce complexity in the way we manage the business. We expect to reduce net global headcount by approximately 7%. We also plan to downsize, vacate or close certain facilities and data centers in connection with the restructuring plan. We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the restructuring of approximately $100 million, approximately $75 million for severance and termination benefits and $25 million for site closures. These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2020.



Contractual obligations



The following is a schedule of our significant contractual obligations as of July 5, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)These amounts are associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services generally including agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The table above also includes agreements to purchase goods or services that have cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment. The amounts under such contracts are included in the table above because management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely, and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar materials.



(3)These amounts represent the transition tax on previously untaxed foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.1) which may be paid in installments through July 2025.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits and other long-term taxes as of July 5, 2019 we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $440 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from the contractual obligations table. See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



Indemnifications



In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. See Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.



