Item 1. Financial Statements



SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited, in millions, except share amounts which are reflected in thousands, and par value per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Derived from audited financial statements.



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



3

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited, in millions, except per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Net income per share amounts may not add due to rounding.



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



4

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited, in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



5

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited, in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



6

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 1. Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies



Business



Symantec Corporation (“Symantec,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Symantec Corporation and all of its subsidiaries) is a global leader in cybersecurity.



On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions to Thoma Bravo, LLC’s portfolio company DigiCert Parent Inc. (“DigiCert”). The results of operations of our WSS and PKI solutions prior to the divestiture are reported in our consolidated results of operations through October 31, 2017. See Note 6 for more information on the divestiture.



Basis of presentation



The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the United States of America (“U.S.”) for interim financial information. In the opinion of management, the unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, except as otherwise noted, necessary for the fair presentation of our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows for the interim periods. These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. The results of operations for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.



We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. Unless otherwise stated, references to three and nine month periods in this report relate to fiscal periods ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016. The nine months ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016 each consisted of 39 weeks. Our 2018 fiscal year consists of 52 weeks and ends on March 30, 2018.



Recently adopted authoritative guidance



Employee Stock-Based Compensation. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted new guidance to simplify accounting for share-based payment transactions. Prior to adoption, excess tax benefits resulting from the difference between the deduction for tax purposes and the compensation costs recognized for financial reporting were not recognized until the deduction reduced taxes payable. As a result of the new guidance, we now recognize excess tax benefits or deficiencies in the period in which the award vests. We elected to continue to estimate forfeitures rather than record the forfeitures as they occur. We adopted the change in recognizing excess tax benefits using the modified retrospective method. We also elected to retrospectively apply the change in presentation of excess tax benefits recognized related to stock-based compensation expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows from financing activities to operating activities. The cumulative effect of adopting the new accounting guidance was not material.



There have been no other material changes in our significant accounting policies as of and for the nine months ended December 29, 2017, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.



Note 2. Segment Information



We have the following two reporting segments, which are the same as our operating segments:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7

•Consumer Digital Safety. Our Consumer Digital Safety segment focuses on providing a comprehensive Digital Safety solution to protect information, devices, networks and the identities of consumers. This solution includes our Norton-branded services, which provide multi-layer security across major desktop and mobile operating systems, public Wi-Fi connections, and home networks, to defend against increasingly complex online threats to individuals, families and small businesses, and our LifeLock-branded identity protection services. Our LifeLock-branded identity protection services primarily consist of identifying and notifying users of identity-related and other events and assisting users in remediating their impact. With the addition of LifeLock-branded identity protection services, we are providing a comprehensive digital safety solution designed to protect information across devices, customer identities and the connected home and family and accelerating our leadership in Consumer Digital Safety to protect all aspects of consumers’ digital lives.



Operating segments are based upon the nature of our business and how our business is managed. Our Chief Operating Decision Makers (“CODM”), comprised of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), use our operating segment financial information to evaluate segment performance and to allocate resources.



There were no inter-segment sales for the periods presented. The following table summarizes the operating results of our reporting segments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments. These unallocated expenses consist of stock-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets; restructuring, transition and other costs; and acquisition-related costs.



The following table provides a reconciliation of our total reportable segments’ operating income to our total operating income (loss):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 3. Net Income Per Share



Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards. Diluted loss per share was the same as basic loss per share for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, as there was a loss from continuing operations in the periods and inclusion of potentially issuable shares was anti-dilutive.



8

The components of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Net income per share amounts may not add due to rounding.



Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes. During the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, the conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive due to a loss from continuing operations.



Note 4. Restructuring, Transition and Other Costs



Our restructuring, transition and other costs and liabilities consist primarily of severance, facilities, transition and other related costs. Severance costs generally include severance payments, outplacement services, health insurance coverage and legal costs. Included in other exit and disposal costs are advisory fees incurred in connection with restructuring events and facilities exit costs, which generally include rent expense and lease termination costs, less estimated sublease income. Transition costs are incurred in connection with Board of Directors approved discrete strategic information technology transformation initiatives and primarily consist of consulting charges associated with our enterprise resource planning and supporting systems and costs to automate business processes. In addition, transition costs include expenses associated with divestitures of our product lines. Restructuring, transition and other costs are managed at the corporate level and are not allocated to our reportable segments. See Note 2 for information regarding the reconciliation of total segment operating income to total consolidated operating income (loss).



Fiscal 2017 Plan



We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the “Fiscal 2017 Plan”). We have reduced headcount and closed certain facilities in connection with the Fiscal 2017 Plan and expect additional headcount reductions and facilities closures. We expect to incur additional costs of between $70 million and $90 million in connection with the Fiscal 2017 Plan primarily consisting of severance and termination benefits and facilities exit costs. These actions are expected to be completed in the first half of fiscal 2019. As of December 29, 2017, liabilities for excess facility obligations at several locations around the world are expected to be paid throughout the respective lease terms, the longest of which extends through fiscal 2022.



9

Restructuring, transition and other costs summary



Our restructuring, transition and other costs are presented in the table below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restructuring summary



Our restructuring activities related to the Fiscal 2017 Plan are presented in the table below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The restructuring liabilities are included in accounts payable, other current liabilities and other long-term obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.



Note 5. Income Taxes



The following table summarizes our effective tax rate for income (loss) from continuing operations for the periods presented: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective tax rate for income from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to accounting for the effects of enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.1) or the “Act” on December 22, 2017, the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, partially offset by various permanent differences.



In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we revised our estimated annual effective rate to reflect a change in the federal statutory rate from 35% to 21%, as a result of the enactment of the Act, which included broad tax reforms that are applicable to us. The rate change is effective January 1, 2018 and therefore will require us to use a blended U.S. statutory rate of 31.58% for our fiscal year 2018. As a result, we recognized a tax benefit in our tax provision for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 related to applying the new blended tax rate to our taxable income, as well as adjusting our deferred tax balance to reflect the application of the Act.



Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences. Our effective tax rate for loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended December 30, 2016 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development credit, partially offset by various permanent differences and tax expense related to the loss of tax attributes due to restructuring activities. Additionally, as pre-tax income (loss) approaches break even, small changes can produce significant variability in the effective tax rate.



For the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit of $30 million and an income tax expense of $7 million on discontinued operations, respectively. For the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016, 



10

we recorded an income tax benefit of $85 million and an income tax expense of $49 million on discontinued operations, respectively. See Note 13 for further details regarding discontinued operations.



Income tax expense from continuing operations for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 was adjusted to reflect the discrete effects of the Act and resulted in an increase in income tax benefit of $810 million. This includes an income tax benefit of $1.6 billion resulting from the application of the Act to existing deferred tax balances, including a reduction of the previously accrued deferred tax liability for foreign earnings by $1.4 billion. This was partially offset by $821 million of tax expense that was recorded for the one-time transition tax liability under the Act.



As of December 29, 2017, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Act; however, in certain cases, as described below, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on our existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax. These amounts may require further adjustments as a result of additional future guidance from the U.S. Department of the Treasury, changes in our assumptions, and the availability of further information and interpretations. In other cases, we have not been able to make a reasonable estimate and we continue to account for those items based on our existing accounting policies and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to enactment. For the items for which we were able to determine a reasonable estimate, we recognized a provisional tax benefit of $810 million, which is included as a component of income tax expense from continuing operations.



We remeasured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on an estimate of the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future. However, we are still analyzing certain aspects of the Act and refining our calculations, which could potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts. Additionally, our estimates for when timing differences will reverse could differ from actual results at year end, impacting our provisional tax benefit.



The Act contained a one-time transition tax that is based on our total post-1986 earnings and profits (“E&P”) that we previously deferred from U.S. income taxes. We recorded a provisional amount for our one-time transition tax liability of our foreign subsidiaries. We have not yet completed our calculation of the total post-1986 E&P for these foreign subsidiaries. The liability ultimately determined will be dependent on our final fiscal year results. Further, the transition tax is based in part on the amount of those earnings held in cash and other specified assets. This amount may change when we finalize the calculation of post-1986 foreign E&P previously deferred from U.S. federal taxation and finalize the amounts held in cash or other specified assets. Future accounting guidance may also change our provisional estimates for the transition tax.



We have not completed our analysis of the deferred tax accounting for the new taxes on global intangible low taxed income and, therefore, have not recorded provisional amounts. We have not determined whether our accounting policy will be to record these amounts as deferred taxes or as period costs. We do not have sufficient information to complete the analysis and are awaiting potential further guidance required to evaluate the impact of deferred tax accounting for these provisions. Following the Securities and Exchange Commission guidance on changes in the tax law for which we are unable to make a provisional estimate, we have continued to compute this aspect of the tax provision based on the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to the Act being enacted.



Note 6. Acquisitions and Divestiture



Fiscal 2018 acquisitions



Fireglass and Skycure acquisitions



In July 2017, we completed our acquisitions of Israel-based Fireglass, Ltd. (“Fireglass”) and Skycure, Ltd. (“Skycure”). Fireglass provides agentless isolation solutions that prevent ransomware, malware and phishing threats in real-time from reaching user endpoints or the corporate network. With this acquisition, we further strengthened our enterprise security strategy to deliver an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform and extended our participation in the Secure Web Gateway and Email protection markets delivered both on premises and in the cloud. Skycure provides mobile threat defense for devices running modern operating systems, including iOS and Android. This acquisition extends our endpoint security capabilities. With the addition of Skycure our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform now has visibility into and control over all endpoint devices, including mobile devices, whether corporate owned or bring your own device. The total aggregate consideration for these acquisitions, primarily consisting of cash, was $345 million, net of $15 million cash acquired.



11

Our preliminary allocation of the aggregate purchase price for these two acquisitions, based on the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in July 2017, and the related weighted-average estimated useful lives, is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The preliminary allocation of the aggregate purchase price for the two acquisitions described above was based upon preliminary valuations, and our estimates and assumptions are subject to refinement within the measurement period (up to one year from the close date). Adjustments to the purchase price allocations may require adjustments to goodwill prospectively. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized are certain tax matters, intangible assets, and identification of contingencies.



The preliminary goodwill arising from the acquisitions is attributed to the expected synergies, including revenue benefits that are expected to be generated by combining Fireglass and Skycure with Symantec. A portion of the goodwill recognized is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. See Note 7 for more information on goodwill.



Pro forma results of operations for these acquisitions have not been presented because they were not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate.



Other fiscal 2018 acquisitions



During the nine months ended December 29, 2017, in addition to the acquisitions mentioned above, we completed acquisitions of other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $66 million, net of $1 million cash acquired. Of the aggregate purchase price, $48 million was preliminarily recorded to goodwill. The primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocations that are not yet finalized are certain tax matters, intangible assets, and identification of contingencies. These acquisitions were not material to our consolidated results of operations, either individually or in the aggregate.



Fiscal 2017 Blue Coat acquisition



During our second quarter of fiscal 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Blue Coat, Inc. (“Blue Coat”). The total consideration for the acquisition was approximately $4.67 billion, net of cash acquired. The Blue Coat results are included in our Enterprise Security segment. See Note 2 for more information related to our segments.



Unaudited pro forma information



The unaudited pro forma financial results combine the historical results of Symantec and Blue Coat for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 and include the effects of pro forma adjustments as if Blue Coat were acquired in the beginning of our 2016 fiscal year. The pro forma results for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 include nonrecurring adjustments to amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, commissions, interest on debt used to finance the acquisition, and acquisition-related transaction costs, as well as the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments.



The unaudited pro forma financial results presented below do not include any anticipated synergies or other expected benefits of the acquisition. These pro forma results are presented for informational purposes only and are not indicative of future operations or results that would have been achieved had the acquisition been completed as of the beginning of our 2016 fiscal year. The following table summarizes the pro forma financial information:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



LifeLock acquisition-related shareholder settlement



On February 9, 2017, we completed the acquisition of LifeLock, Inc. (“LifeLock”). In connection with this acquisition, we recognized a liability of $68 million for a claim related to appraisal rights by a LifeLock stockholder, which we settled in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 for $74 million in cash. The $6 million paid in addition to the recognized liability was recorded to general and administrative expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.



12

Divestiture



Website Security and Public Key Infrastructure solutions



On October 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our WSS and PKI solutions in our Enterprise Security segment to DigiCert. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we received aggregate consideration of $1.1 billion, consisting of approximately $960 million in cash and shares of common stock representing an approximate 28% interest in the outstanding common stock of DigiCert valued at $160 million as of October 31, 2017. The cash consideration is subject to adjustment for WSS and PKI closing date cash and working capital as specified in the purchase agreement.



We determined the estimated fair value of our equity investment with the assistance of valuations performed by third party specialists and estimates made by management. We utilized a combination of the income approach based on a discounted cash flow method and market approach based on the guideline public company method that focuses on comparing DigiCert to reasonably similar publicly traded companies. The equity interest received is being accounted for under the equity method. We record our interest in the net earnings (loss) of DigiCert based on the most recently available financial statements of DigiCert, which are provided to us on a three month lag, along with adjustments for unrealized profits or losses on intra-entity transactions and amortization of basis differences, in Income (loss) from equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Profits or losses related to intra-entity sales with DigiCert are eliminated until realized by us or DigiCert. Basis differences represent differences between the original fair value of the investment and the underlying equity in net assets of the investment and are generally amortized over the lives of the related assets that gave rise to them. The carrying amount of the investment in equity interest will be adjusted to reflect our interest in net earnings, dividends received and other-than-temporary impairments.



As of the transaction close date, the carrying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities associated with the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of the transaction close date, we also had $8 million in cumulative currency translation losses related to subsidiaries that were sold, which was reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) to the gain on divestiture. In addition, we incurred direct costs of $8 million, which was netted against the gain on divestiture, and tax expense of $137 million.



The following table presents the gain before income taxes associated with the divestiture:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The gain on sale of short-term investment represents the gain on the sale of a short-term investment that was included in the transaction and resulted in the reclassification on the transaction close date of $7 million of unrealized gains from AOCI to the gain on divestiture.



The following table presents the income before income taxes for our WSS and PKI solutions for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In connection with the divestiture, we entered into a Transition Services Agreement ("TSA") with DigiCert pursuant to which we provide certain services including human resource services, financial support services and information technology services to 



13

DigiCert. The services under the TSA commenced with the close of the transaction and expire at various dates through fiscal 2019, with extension options. During the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017, we recorded income of $10 million and associated direct costs of $2 million for all services provided to DigiCert in Other income (expense) in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.



Note 7. Goodwill and Intangible Assets



Goodwill



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Intangible assets, net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense for purchased intangible assets is summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of December 29, 2017, future amortization expense related to intangible assets that have finite lives is as follows by fiscal year:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Note 6 for more information on our acquisitions and divestiture.



14

Note 8. Debt 



The following table summarizes components of our debt:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Based on the closing price of our common stock of $28.06 on December 29, 2017, the if-converted values of our 2.5% and 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceed the principal amount by approximately $337 million and $469 million, respectively.



The following table sets forth total interest expense recognized related to our 2.5% and 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of December 29, 2017, the future maturities of debt by fiscal year are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Debt repayments



During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we prepaid principal amounts of $130 million of our Senior Term Loan A-3 and $500 million of our Senior Term Loan A-1.



During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we prepaid principal amounts of $1.2 billion of our Senior Term Loan A-5 and $200 million of our Senior Term Loan A-1. We also repaid in cash at maturity the $600 million remaining principal balance of our 2.75% Senior Notes due June 15, 2017.



15

Note 9. Fair Value Measurements



Assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis



Our cash equivalents consist primarily of money market funds whose carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value. Our short-term investments consist of investment securities with original maturities greater than three months whose fair value approximates their amortized cost and marketable equity securities.



The following table summarizes our assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis, by level, within the fair value hierarchy:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



There were no transfers between fair value measurement levels during the nine months ended December 29, 2017.



The following table presents the contractual maturities of our debt investments as of December 29, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.



Fair value of debt



As of December 29, 2017 and March 31, 2017, the total fair value of our debt was $5.7 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively, based on Level 2 inputs.



16

Note 10. Stockholders' Equity



Dividends



The following table summarizes dividends declared and paid and dividend equivalents paid for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our restricted stock units and performance based restricted stock units are entitled to dividend equivalents to be paid in the form of cash upon vesting for each share of the underlying unit.



On January 31, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid on March 14, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 20, 2018. All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all shares of unvested restricted stock and performance-based stock as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.



Stock repurchase program



As of December 29, 2017, the remaining balance of our share repurchase authorization is $800 million and does not have an expiration date.



Accelerated stock repurchase agreement



During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we entered into an accelerated stock repurchase (“ASR”) agreement with financial institutions to repurchase an aggregate of $500 million of our common stock. Pursuant to the ASR agreement, we made an upfront payment of $500 million to the financial institutions and received and retired an initial delivery of 14.2 million shares of our common stock. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the ASR and received and retired an additional delivery of 2.2 million shares of our common stock. The total shares received and retired under the terms of the ASR agreement were 16.4 million, with an average price paid per share of $30.51.



Changes in AOCI by component



Components of AOCI net of taxes were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



17

Net gain (loss) reclassified from AOCI to the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 11. Stock-Based Compensation



Stock-based compensation expense



The following table presents the stock-based compensation expense recognized in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The tax expense (benefit) associated with stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2017 reflects the impact of the enactment of the Act. The tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2016 reflects the historic tax rates.



18

The following table summarizes additional information related to our stock-based compensation:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 12. Contingencies



Indemnifications 



In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. It is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements and we have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



In connection with the sale of our former information management business (“Veritas”), we assigned several leases to Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries. As a condition to consenting to the assignments, certain lessors required us to agree to indemnify the lessor under the applicable lease with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of Veritas Technologies LLC or its related subsidiaries’ breach of payment obligations under the terms of the lease. As with our other indemnification obligations discussed above and in general, it is not possible to determine the aggregate maximum potential loss under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. As with our other indemnification obligations, such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses and to date, generally under our real estate obligations, we have not incurred material costs as a result of such obligations under our leases and have not accrued any liabilities related to such indemnification obligations in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



We provide limited product warranties and the majority of our software license agreements contain provisions that indemnify licensees of our software from damages and costs resulting from claims alleging that our software infringes on the intellectual property rights of a third party. Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial. We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred.



Litigation contingencies



GSA



During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (“DOJ”) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (“GSA”) Multiple Award 



19

Schedule Contract No. GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.



As reported on the GSA’s publicly-available database, our total sales under the GSA Schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning January 2007 and ending September 2012. We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased. The government has also indicated they are going to pursue claims for certain sales to California, Florida, and New York as well as sales to the federal government through reseller GSA Schedule contracts, which could significantly increase our potential damages exposure.



In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against Symantec related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York. On July 18, 2014, the Court-imposed seal expired, and the government intervened in the lawsuit. On September 16, 2014, the states of California and Florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of New York notified the Court that it would not intervene. On October 3, 2014, the DOJ filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount. On October 17, 2014, California and Florida combined their claims with those of the DOJ and the relator on behalf of New York in an Omnibus Complaint, and a First Amended Omnibus Complaint was filed on October 8, 2015; the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts.



It is possible that the litigation could lead to claims or findings of violations of the False Claims Act, and could be material to our results of operations and cash flows for any period. Resolution of False Claims Act investigations can ultimately result in the payment of somewhere between one and three times the actual damages proven by the government, plus civil penalties in some cases, depending upon a number of factors. Our current estimate of the low end of the range of the probable estimated loss from this matter is $25 million, which we have accrued. This amount contemplates estimated losses from both the investigation of compliance with the terms of the GSA Schedule contract as well as possible violations of the False Claims Act. There is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred in excess of our accrual for this matter, however, we are currently unable to determine the high end of the range of estimated losses resulting from this matter.



Finjan



On August 28, 2013, Finjan, Inc. (“Finjan”) filed a complaint against Blue Coat Systems, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that certain Blue Coat products infringe six of Finjan’s U.S. patents. On August 4, 2015, a jury returned a verdict that certain Blue Coat products infringe five of the Finjan patents-in-suit and awarded Finjan lump-sum damages of $40 million. On November 20, 2015, the trial court entered a judgment in favor of Finjan on the jury verdict and certain non-jury legal issues. On July 28, 2016, in its ruling on post-trial motions the trial court denied Blue Coat’s motions seeking a new trial or judgment as a matter of law and denied Finjan’s request for enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees. In August 2016, we completed our acquisition of Blue Coat. We subsequently filed an appeal with the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals. On January 10, 2018, the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals issued an opinion favorable to us. The decision reversed or vacated all but $8 million of the judgment against Blue Coat and remanded to the District Court to determine whether Finjan is entitled to a new trial on damages related to one of the patents. Blue Coat previously accrued $40 million in connection with Finjan, which was assumed by us as a part of the acquisition of Blue Coat.



Other



We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business. Although adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur in one or more of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the possible loss or losses from each of these cases. The final resolution of these lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate, is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.



Note 13. Discontinued Operations



On January 29, 2016, we completed the sale of Veritas. The results of Veritas are presented as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all reported periods.



20

The following table presents information regarding certain components of income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



