Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results



The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “goal,” “intent,” “momentum,” “projects,” and similar expressions. In addition, projections of our future financial performance; anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries; the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, restructurings, stock repurchases and investment activities; the outcome or impact of pending litigation, claims or disputes; our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; plans for and anticipated benefits of our solutions; matters arising out of our completed Audit Committee Investigation and the ongoing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) investigation; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Part II Item 1A, of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully.



OVERVIEW



We are a global leader in cyber security and provide cyber security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide. Our Enterprise Security portfolio includes a deep and broad mix of products, services and solutions, delivered as part of an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform, which unifies cloud and on-premises security to provide advanced threat protection and information protection across all endpoints, networks, email, and cloud applications. Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.



Fiscal calendar



We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. The first quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 both consisted of 13 weeks. Our 2019 fiscal year consists of 52 weeks and ends on March 29, 2019.



26

Key financial metrics



The following tables provides our key financial metrics for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•Operating income increased primarily due to decreases in stock-based compensation expense and outside services compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, partially offset by the absence of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.



•Net loss and diluted net loss per share decreased primarily due to increased operating income and lower interest expense.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



27

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 



The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. requires us to make estimates, including judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. Making estimates and judgments about future events is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.



 The critical accounting policies and estimates were disclosed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2018. There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, except for changes as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard. 



Revenue recognition



We recognize revenue primarily pursuant to the requirements under the authoritative guidance on contracts with customers. Revenue recognition requirements are very complex and require us to make estimates and assumptions.



We enter into arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services. We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”). Judgments are required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation. The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions. When observable prices in historical transactions are not available or are inconsistent, we estimate SSP based on observable prices in historical transactions of similar products, pricing discount practices, product margins, and other factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each performance obligation. Changes to the performance obligations in an arrangement, the judgments required to estimate the SSP for the respective performance obligations, and increasing variability in contractual arrangements could materially impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Percentages may not add due to rounding.



28

Net revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net revenues decreased $19 million primarily due to a $90 million decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Security segment as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, offset by an increase of $71 million in revenue from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to increased revenue from identity and information protection solutions.



Net revenues by geographical region



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; and APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan. 



Cost of revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our cost of revenues decreased $8 million primarily due to an $18 million decrease in technical support costs partially due to the impact of our divested WSS and PKI solutions, mostly offset by a $17 million increase in royalty fees associated with our consumer identity and information protection solutions. 



Operating expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales and marketing expense decreased $47 million primarily due to decreases of approximately $20 million related to our divested WSS and PKI solutions and $12 million in stock-based compensation expense.



Research and development expense was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.



General and administrative expense decreased $16 million primarily due to a $19 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense.



Amortization of intangible assets did not change significantly compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.



Restructuring, transition and other costs increased $8 million primarily due to an increase of $45 million in transition costs primarily consisting of projects costs related to our enterprise resource planning and supporting systems, partially offset by a decrease of $38 million in restructuring costs as our restructuring plan announced in fiscal 2017 was substantially completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2019. See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about charges related to our restructuring plan.



29

Non-operating expense, net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Non-operating expense, net, decreased by $19 million primarily due to a $32 million decrease in interest expense during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018 as a result of lower outstanding borrowings due to repayments during fiscal 2018, partially offset by a $26 million loss during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from our equity method investment received in connection with the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.



Provision for income taxes



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, we recorded an income tax expense of $0 million and $41 million, respectively, on discontinued operations. 



Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was based on the statutory tax rate of 21%. Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate of primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit and foreign derived intangible income deduction, partially offset by tax expense from certain intercompany transactions and various permanent differences. 



Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was based on the historic statutory tax rate of 35%. Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings, the research and development tax credit, and excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, partially offset by various permanent differences. 



See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the provisional impact from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. 



We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.



The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease, whether by payment, release, or a combination of both, in the next 12 months by $13 million, which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate. 



We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions. 



Segment operating results



We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments. These unallocated expenses primarily consist of stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, transition and other costs, and acquisition-related costs in all periods presented. See Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



30

Enterprise Security Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue decreased $90 million, primarily due to a $103 million decrease in revenue as a result of our fiscal 2018 divestiture of the WSS and PKI solutions. Operating income decreased $38 million primarily due to our October 2017 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $59 million to operating income in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.



Consumer Digital Safety Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue increased $71 million due to a $73 million increase in revenue from sales of our identity and information protection solutions attributable to increased customer count and increased revenue per customer. Operating income increased $33 million, primarily due to increased revenue, partially offset by increased allocated corporate costs of $27 million and increased cost of revenue of $18 million.



LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND CASH REQUIREMENTS



We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.



As of June 29, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.3 billion, of which $698 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns. Under the transition tax of the Act, we have treated all previously untaxed foreign earnings as taxable in the U.S. and as a result we recorded a provisional liability for the one-time transition tax, payable in annual installments over eight years, of $892 million in fiscal 2019. The move to a participation exemption system under the Act allows us to make distributions of non-U.S. earnings to the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal tax, however these distributions may be subject to applicable State or non-U.S. taxes. We have not recognized deferred income taxes for local country income and withholding taxes that could be incurred on distributions of certain non-U.S. earnings or for outside basis differences in our subsidiaries, because we plan to indefinitely reinvest such earnings and basis differences.



We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion which expires in May 2021.



Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions. As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.



Our capital allocation strategy is to balance driving stockholder returns, managing financial risk, and preserving our flexibility to pursue strategic options, including acquisitions. Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.



31

Cash flows



The following summarizes our cash flow activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash from operating activities



Our cash flows from operations in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $331 million, compared to $213 million in the corresponding period in the prior year. Our cash flows for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 reflected a net loss of $60 million adjusted by non-cash amortization and depreciation of $152 million, stock-based compensation of $113 million and a deferred tax benefit of $42 million. Our cash flows in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected a net loss of $133 million, adjusted by non-cash amortization and depreciation of $165 million, stock-based compensation of $147 million and a deferred tax benefit of $62 million. 



Changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of:



Accounts receivable decreased $321 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to the combination of higher collections and lower billings in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. 



Contract liabilities decreased $106 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to lower billings in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.



Cash from investing activities



Our investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 included cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $64 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $44 million, while our investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $47 million. 



Cash from financing activities



Our financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 primarily consisted of payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $60 million and tax withholding payments related to RSUs of $42 million, compared to $66 million and $61 million, respectively, in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. In addition, we repaid debt of $2.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.



Cash requirements



Debt. As of June 29, 2018, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $5.1 billion, summarized as follows. See Note 7 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Debt covenant compliance. The Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and our revolving credit facility contain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend). Our Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 also require us to file periodic reports with the SEC by specified deadlines. 



As of June 29, 2018, we had not met the requirements in the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5, the revolving credit facility agreement, the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to deliver audited financial statements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 and file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such period with the SEC. In addition, we subsequently did not meet the requirements under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for our fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2018 with the SEC by the specified deadline.  



On June 22, 2018, we reached an agreement with lenders to waive the financial reporting requirements under the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and the revolving credit facility agreement through October 27, 2018. On October 26, 2018 we satisfied these requirements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 by filing our Form 10-K for such period with the SEC. 



The filing of our Form 10-K and this Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended June 29, 2018 also satisfied our SEC reporting requirements for our year ended March 30, 2018 and our quarter ended June 29, 2018, respectively, under the Convertible 



32

Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025. However, we have not yet met our SEC reporting requirements under these notes for our quarterly period ended September 28, 2018. 



The failure to meet these reporting requirements under the 5% Notes and the Convertible Senior Notes does not mature into the right for noteholders to take action until notice is received from noteholders and a grace period, as defined in the associated indentures, has passed. Furthermore, according to the Convertible Senior Note agreements, we have the option to remedy an event of default by paying additional interest for up to 360 days after the passage of the grace period. As of the date of this filing, no notice has been received from noteholders. 



Because we expected as of June 29, 2018 that we will comply with all of our debt covenants before the applicable grace periods have passed and waivers have expired, we have classified all of the associated outstanding debt as long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. 



Dividends. On August 2, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in September 2018. On November 1, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2018. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. 



Stock repurchases. Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through open market and through accelerated stock repurchase transactions. As of June 29, 2018, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $800 million and does not have an expiration date.



Contractual obligations



Operating lease commitments



As of June 29, 2018, the minimum future rentals on our non-cancelable operating leases totaled $252 million.



Purchase obligations



As of June 29, 2018, we had purchase obligations of $619 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services, including agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The amounts also include agreements to purchase goods or services that have cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment because management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar materials.



The above purchase obligations do not include future minimum contractual obligations related to a five-year purchase agreement with a service provider for a total contract value of $500 million that we entered into in September 2018.



Deemed repatriation taxes



As of June 29, 2018, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax of $892 million on untaxed foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries in annual installments over the next 8 years as a result of the Act. 



Fiscal 2019 restructuring plan



On August 2, 2018, we announced a restructuring plan under which we will initiate targeted reductions of our global workforce of up to approximately 8%. We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the restructuring plan of approximately $50 million, primarily for severance and termination benefits. These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2019.



Indemnifications



In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. See Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.



