Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



Forward-looking statements and factors that may affect future results



The discussion below contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to safe harbors under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) and the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements include references to our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets, as well as statements including words such as “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “goal,” “intent,” “momentum,” “projects,” and similar expressions. In addition, projections of our future financial performance; anticipated growth and trends in our businesses and in our industries; the anticipated impacts of acquisitions, restructurings, stock repurchases, and investment activities; the outcome or impact of pending litigation, claims or disputes; our intent to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; plans for and anticipated benefits of our solutions; matters arising out of the ongoing U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) investigation; and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions, based on our current expectations about future events and may not prove to be accurate. We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and our actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements on the basis of several factors, including those that we discuss in Part II Item 1A, of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. We encourage you to read that section carefully.



OVERVIEW



NortonLifeLock Inc. is a global leader in consumer cyber safety. Our Norton LifeLock branded solutions help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identity, and home networks. 



On August 8, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement with Broadcom Inc. (Broadcom) under which Broadcom agreed to purchase certain of our Enterprise Security assets and assume certain liabilities for a purchase price of $10.7 billion (the Broadcom sale). On November 4, 2019, we completed the transaction.



The divestiture of our Enterprise Security business allows us to shift our operational focus to our consumer business and represents a strategic shift in our operations. As a result, the results of our Enterprise Security business were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and thus excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we operate in one reportable segment. The Enterprise Security business was part of our Enterprise Security Segment. Revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, are now included in our remaining reportable segment.



In connection with the Broadcom sale, effective November 4, 2019, we changed our corporate name from Symantec Corporation to NortonLifeLock Inc.



Fiscal calendar



We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. The second quarter of fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 both consisted of 13 weeks. The three and six months ended October 4, 2019 consisted of 13 and 27 weeks, respectively, whereas the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 consisted of 13 and 26 weeks, respectively. Our 2020 fiscal year consists of 53 weeks and ends on April 3, 2020.



27

Key financial metrics



The following tables provide our key financial metrics for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Below are our financial highlights for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year:



•Net revenues were relatively flat.



•Operating income increased $60 million primarily due to lower restructuring, transition and other expense, partially offset by higher advertisement and promotion costs.



•Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of taxes, increased $97 million primarily due to lower operating expenses.



•Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, increased $696 million primarily due to higher income tax benefits.



•Net income and net income per share increased primarily due to higher income from both our continuing operations and discontinued operations, net of taxes.



Below are our financial highlights for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year unless stated otherwise:



•Net revenues increased 3% primarily due to the favorable impact from the additional week in the first six months of fiscal 2020.



•Operating income increased $223 million primarily due to revenue recognized in the additional week in the first six months of fiscal 2020, lower restructuring, transition and other expense, and lower stock-based compensation expense.



•Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of taxes, increased $204 million primarily due to the higher operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.



•Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes, increased $675 million primarily due to higher income tax benefits.



•Net income and net income per share increased primarily due to higher income from both our continuing operations and discontinued operations, net of taxes.



•Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $65 million primarily due to unfavorable net changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by higher net income adjusted for non-cash items.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 



The preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. requires us to make estimates, including judgments and assumptions that affect the 



28

reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates on a regular basis and make changes accordingly. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. Making estimates and judgments about future events is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.



Our critical accounting policies and estimates were disclosed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019. There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the six months ended October 4, 2019, except for those related to discontinued operations as a result of changes in reporting that relate to the Broadcom sale. 



Discontinued Operations. We review the presentation of planned business dispositions in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements based on the available information and events that have occurred. The review consists of evaluating whether the business meets the definition of a component for which the operations and cash flows are clearly distinguishable from the other components of the business, and if so, whether it is anticipated that after the disposal the cash flows of the component would be eliminated from continuing operations and whether the disposition represents a strategic shift that has a major effect on operations and financial results. In addition, we evaluate whether the business has met the criteria as a business held for sale. In order for a planned disposition to be classified as a business held for sale, the established criteria must be met as of the reporting date, including an active program to market the business and the expected disposition of the business within one year.



Planned business dispositions are presented as discontinued operations when all the criteria described above are met. For those divestitures that qualify as discontinued operations, all comparative periods presented are reclassified in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. Additionally, the results of operations of a discontinued operation are reclassified to income from discontinued operations, net of tax, for all periods presented. Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from such businesses; general corporate overhead is not allocated to discontinued operations. See Note 3 - Discontinued Operations in our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial statements for the carrying value of discontinued operations held for sale assets and liabilities and additional information.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Percentages may not add due to rounding.



29

Net revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Performance Metrics



We regularly monitor a number of metrics in order to measure our current performance and estimate our future performance. Our metrics may be calculated in a manner different than similar metrics used by other companies.



The following table summarizes supplemental key performance metrics for our consumer solutions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 We define direct customer revenues as revenues from sales of our consumer solutions to direct customers, which we define as those customers who have a direct billing relationship with us. Such customer sources include online acquisition and retention, affiliates, co-marketing, and original contract manufacturer channels. Direct customers exclude customers of our partners and ID Analytics solutions and direct customer revenues excludes partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues. For the three months ended October 4, 2019 partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues were $59 million and $13 million, respectively. For the three months ended September 28, 2018 partner revenues and ID Analytics revenues were $58 million and $11 million, respectively.



Average direct customer count presents the average of the total number of direct customers at the beginning and end of the fiscal quarter.



ARPU is calculated as estimated direct customer revenues for the period divided by the average direct customer count for the same period, expressed as a monthly figure. We monitor APRU because it helps us understand the rate at which we are monetizing our consumer customer base.



Net revenues by geographical region



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Percentages may not add to 100% due to rounding.



The Americas include the U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.



Three Months Ended October 4, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 



Net revenues were relatively flat, as our average direct customer count decline was partially offset by an increase in our ARPU.



Six Months Ended October 4, 2019 Compared with Six Months Ended September 28, 2018



Net revenues increased $34 million compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2019 primarily due to approximately $44 million of revenue from the additional week in the first six months of fiscal 2020.



30

Cost of revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended October 4, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 



Our cost of revenues decreased $16 million primarily due to inventory write-offs of $10 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 which did not recur in fiscal 2020 and an $8 million decrease in technical support costs in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year.



Six Months Ended October 4, 2019 Compared with Six Months Ended September 28, 2018



Our cost of revenues decreased $26 million primarily due to inventory write-offs of $13 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and a $14 million decrease in technical support costs in the first six months of fiscal 2020 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year.



Operating expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended October 4, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 



Sales and marketing expense increased $14 million primarily due to a $30 million increase in advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by $5 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense.



Research and development expense decreased $19 million primarily due to an $8 million decrease in outside services and a $7 million decrease in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation expense.



General and administrative expense decreased $9 million primarily due to a $14 million decrease in outside services.



Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $35 million primarily due to a $51 million decrease in transition related projects costs, partially offset by a $17 million increase in severance costs.



Six Months Ended October 4, 2019 Compared with Six Months Ended September 28, 2018



Sales and marketing expense increased $1 million primarily due to a $9 million increase advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by a $9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense.



Research and development expense decreased $26 million primarily due to a $10 million decrease in outside services and a $7 million decrease in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation.



General and administrative expense decreased $32 million primarily due to a $21 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense and a $15 million decrease in outside services, partially offset by a $11 million increase in compensation expenses other than stock-based compensation.



Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $107 million primarily due to a $119 million decrease in transition related projects costs, partially offset by a $23 million increase in severance costs.



31

Non-operating expense, net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Provision for income taxes



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for fiscal 2020 was based on the statutory tax rate of 21%. Our effective tax rate for continuing operations for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to various permanent differences, and state taxes, partially offset by the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development tax credit. In addition, for the first six months of fiscal 2020, there was additional tax expense recorded to account for uncertain tax positions related to the Ninth Circuit's recent holding in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner.



Our effective tax rate for income (loss) from continuing operations for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 differs from the federal statutory income tax rate primarily due to tax expense recorded to account for one-time adjustments for guidance issued on Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.1) (Tax Reform) and other changes in response to the Tax Reform, various permanent differences, and state taxes, partially offset by the benefits of lower-taxed international earnings and the research and development tax credit.



We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our international earnings were generated from subsidiaries organized in Ireland and Singapore. Our results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent that our geographical mix of income becomes more weighted toward jurisdictions with higher tax rates and would be favorably affected to the extent the relative geographic mix shifts to lower tax jurisdictions. Any change in our mix of earnings is dependent upon many factors and is therefore difficult to predict.



The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involves multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the gross unrecognized tax benefits related to these audits could decrease, whether by payment, release, or a combination of both, in the next 12 months by $30 million, which could reduce our income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate.



We continue to monitor the progress of ongoing income tax controversies and the impact, if any, of the expected expiration of the statute of limitations in various taxing jurisdictions.



32

Discontinued operations



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended October 4, 2019 Compared with Three Months Ended September 28, 2018



Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes increased $696 million primarily as a result of a $665 million tax benefit in discontinued operations during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 to remeasure the deferred tax assets associated with the tax basis of intellectual property held by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland. We previously expected to recover the tax basis through normal operation of our Enterprise business, which is taxed at the Irish trading rate of 12.5%. We now expect to recover the tax basis through the sale of certain assets of our Enterprise business, which will be taxed at the Irish capital gains tax rate of 33%. The impact of the tax benefit was partially offset by a $36 million increase in restructuring, transition and other costs.



Six Months Ended October 4, 2019 Compared with Six Months Ended September 28, 2018



Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes increased $675 million primarily due to a $633 million increase in income tax benefit as a result of the $665 tax benefit discussed above and a $57 million increase in net revenues, partially offset by a $37 million increase in restructuring, transition and other costs.



LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND CASH REQUIREMENTS 



Liquidity



We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.



As of October 4, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.8 billion, of which $0.4 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns. The participation exemption system under current U.S. federal tax regulations generally allows us to make distributions of non-U.S. earnings to the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal tax, however these distributions may be subject to applicable state or non-U.S. taxes. We have not recognized deferred income taxes for local country income and withholding taxes that could be incurred on distributions of certain non-U.S. earnings or for outside basis differences in our subsidiaries, because we plan to indefinitely reinvest such earnings and basis differences.



We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion under a new financing arrangement discussed below which expires in October 2024.



Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, payments of cash dividends, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions. As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.



Our capital allocation strategy is to balance driving stockholder returns, managing financial risk, and preserving our flexibility to pursue strategic options, including acquisitions. Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.



Sale of equity method investment



On October 16, 2019, Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. (Clearlake), a private investment firm, and TA Associates, an existing investor of DigiCert and a private equity firm, completed an investment in DigiCert. As a part of the transaction, Clearlake and TA became equal partners in DigiCert. As a result, we received $378 million in cash for our equity investment in DigiCert. We expect to make income tax payments of approximately $55 million as a result of the transaction.



Divestiture of Enterprise Security business



On November 4, 2019, we completed the sale of certain assets and the assumption of certain liabilities of our Enterprise Security business to Broadcom for a purchase price of $10.7 billion. In connection with the transaction, we expect to incur direct costs of approximately $35 million to $40 million. We expect to pay $2.2 billion to $2.6 billion for U.S. and foreign income taxes as a result of the transaction. We expect to distribute the net proceeds from the Broadcom sale to our stockholders through a special dividend in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2020.



Cash flows



33

The following summarizes our cash flow activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional cash flow information associated with our discontinued operations. 



Cash from operating activities



Our cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2020 reflected net income of $811 million, adjusted by non-cash items, including a deferred income tax benefit of $707 million, amortization and depreciation of $251 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $150 million, compared to a net loss of $68 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $305 million, and stock-based compensation expense of $210 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019. 



Changes in operating assets and liabilities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 consisted primarily of the following:



Accounts receivable decreased $111 million, compared to $286 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to seasonally higher collections than billings during the period.



Contract liabilities decreased $129 million, compared to $116 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019, primarily due to seasonally higher recognized revenue than billings during the period.



Cash from investing activities



Our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 consisted primarily of cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $120 million partially offset by capital expenditures of $76 million, while our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $95 million, partially offset by cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $99 million.



Cash from financing activities



Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 included common stock repurchases of $559 million, payments of dividends and dividend equivalents of $98 million and tax withholding payments related to restricted stock units (RSUs) of $65 million, partially offset by net proceeds from sales of common stock under employee stock incentive plans of $68 million. Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 included payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $110 million and tax withholding payments related to RSUs of $53 million. 



Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2020 included purchases of property and equipment related to discontinued operations of $29 million, compared to $16 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019.



Cash requirements



Debt - As of October 4, 2019, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $4.5 billion, summarized as follows. See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our debt. 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Debt covenant compliance. The Senior Term Loan A-5 agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios. As of October 4, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.



On November 4, 2019, we entered into a credit agreement with financial institutions which provides a revolving line of credit of $1.0 billion through October 2024, a 5-year term loan of $500 million, and a delayed draw 5-year term loan commitment of $750 million through September 15, 2020. Interest on borrowings under the credit agreement can be based on a base rate or a London interbank offered rate at our election, in each case plus a margin that varies based on our ratio of debt to adjusted EBITDA and debt ratings. The principal amount of the term loan is repayable in quarterly installments on the last business day of each calendar quarter commencing with the quarter ended March 31, 2021 in an amount equal to 1.25% of the aggregate principal amount of the term loan and in the outstanding principal amount upon the October 2024 maturity date.



34

In connection with the credit agreement, on November 4, 2019, we fully prepaid the principal amount of $500 million of our Senior Term Loan A-5 and terminated our existing revolving line of credit. 



In our second quarter of fiscal 2021, we plan to borrow under the delayed draw term loan of $750 million, which will mature in October 2024 and to use the proceeds to repay our 4.2% Senior Notes, which are due in September 2020.



Dividends. On November 7, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2019. All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all RSUs and performance-based restricted stock units as of the record date will be entitled to the dividends and dividend equivalents, respectively. Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors. 



Stock repurchases. Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through accelerated stock repurchase transactions, open market transactions (including through trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and privately-negotiated transactions. As of October 4, 2019, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $1.6 billion and does not have an expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities.



November 2019 Restructuring Plan



On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan). Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities. We estimate that we will incur total costs of $800 million in connection with the November 2019 Plan of which approximately $350 million are expected to consist of cash expenditures for severance and termination benefits. We expect these costs to be partially offset by proceeds from the sale of real estate and other assets, in addition to the $378 million of proceeds from the sale of our equity investment discussed above. These actions are expected to be completed within the next twelve months.



Contractual obligations



The following is a schedule of our significant contractual obligations as of October 4, 2019, including those associated with our discontinued operations. The expected timing of payments of the obligations in the following table is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)On November 4, 2019, we entered into a new credit facility, which provides for a revolving line of credit of $1,000 million through October 2024, a 5- year team loan of $500 million, and a delayed draw 5-year term loan commitment of $750 million through September 15, 2020. In connection therewith, we fully prepaid the principal amount of $500 million of our Senior Term Loan A-5 and terminated our existing revolving line of credit. In our second quarter of fiscal 2021, we plan to borrow under the delayed draw term loan of $750 million, which will mature in October 2024 and to use the proceeds to repay our 4.2% Senior Notes, which are due in September 2020.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(3)These amounts are associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services generally including agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The table above also includes agreements to purchase goods or services that have cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment. The amounts under such contracts are included in the table above because management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely, and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar materials.



(4)These amounts represent the transition tax on previously untaxed foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R.1) which may be paid in installments through July 2025.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits and other long-term taxes as of October 4, 2019 we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with 



35

the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $431 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from the contractual obligations table. See Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.



Indemnifications



In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us. See Note 17 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.



