PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 



 Item 1.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS      



The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business. As of June 30, 2019, we are unaware of any legal proceedings pending or threatened against the Company that management believes are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 



 Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS      



Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2018. There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K, except as amended and supplemented by the additional risk factor below. The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and the additional risk factor below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results. 



The United Kingdom’s anticipated withdrawal from the European Union may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. 



In 2016, the United Kingdom voted to depart from the European Union, known as Brexit and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U. and began to negotiate the terms of the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. upon exit. We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U. legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U. The potential impact from Brexit on us and on our results of operations is unclear. The actual effects of Brexit will depend upon many factors, including the final results of the Brexit negotiations. We do not, however, expect Brexit to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations as 15% and 10% of our total revenues for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, are attributable to our U.K. operations. However, we cannot predict the direction Brexit-related matters may take or the impact on our European operations, including our U.K. subsidiary. 



24 



Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 



On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. Under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we are authorized to repurchase up to $5 million of our outstanding shares of common stock from time to time in the open market through December 31, 2019 at prevailing market prices based on market conditions, share price and other factors. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we purchased no shares of our common stock. As of June 30, 2019, $3 million remains authorized for future repurchase under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program. The following table summarizes the repurchase of our common stock in the three months ended June 30, 2019: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Item 3.   DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES      



None. 



 Item 4.   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES      



Not applicable. 



 Item 5.   OTHER INFORMATION      



None.  



Item 6.  EXHIBITS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



25 



