 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION 



     ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 



 There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017. Refer to "Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 for additional information regarding legal proceedings.  



     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 



 There have been no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 except as described below. The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, in addition to other information set forth below and in this report, could materially affect our business operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  



  Changes in United States federal tax laws could result in adverse consequences to United States persons treated as owning 10% or more of our shares.  



 Although we are a Swiss corporation, recent U.S. tax law changes have expanded application of certain ownership attribution rules and cause certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to be treated as Controlled Foreign Corporations ("CFCs") for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A U.S. person that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as owning, directly, indirectly, or constructively, 10% or more of our shares may be required to annually report and include in its U.S. taxable income its pro rata share of certain types of income earned by our subsidiaries that are treated as CFCs, whether or not we make any distributions to such U.S. shareholder. A U.S. person that owns 10% or more of our shares should consult its own tax advisers regarding any potential implications to it of these changes in U.S. federal income tax law. The risk of U.S. federal income tax reporting and compliance obligations with respect to our subsidiaries that now are treated as CFCs may deter our current shareholders from increasing their investment in us, and others from investing in us, which could impact the demand for, and value of, our shares.  



     ITEM 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



  Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities  



 None.  



44 



Table of Contents 



  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  



 The following table presents information about our purchases of our common shares during the quarter ended March 30, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



(1)These columns include the following transactions which occurred during the quarter ended March 30, 2018: 



(i)the acquisition of 6,160 common shares from individuals in order to satisfy tax withholding requirements in connection with the vesting of restricted share awards issued under equity compensation plans; and 



(ii)open market purchases totaling 1,680,770 common shares, summarized on a trade-date basis, in conjunction with the share repurchase program announced in September 2007. 



(2)Our share repurchase program authorizes us to purchase a portion of our outstanding common shares from time to time through open market or private transactions, depending on business and market conditions. The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date.   



     ITEM 6. EXHIBITS 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



*Filed herewith 



**Furnished herewith   



45 



Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES 



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



Date: April 25, 2018  



46
