 Item 3:  



Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks  



For “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” affecting Teradyne, see Part 2 Item 7a, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks,” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018. There were no material changes in our exposure to market risk from those set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.  



In addition to market risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have an equity price risk related to the fair value of our convertible senior unsecured notes issued in December 2016. In December 2016,  



43   



Table of Contents 



 Teradyne issued $460 million aggregate principal amount of 1.25% convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) due December 15, 2023. As of March 31, 2019, the Notes had a fair value of $644.6 million. The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of hypothetical 10% changes of Teradyne’s stock price as of the end of the first quarter of 2019 and the estimated impact on the fair value of the Notes. The selected scenarios are not predictions of future events, but rather are intended to illustrate the effect such event may have on the fair value of the Notes. The fair value of the Notes is subject to equity price risk due to the convertible feature. The fair value of the Notes will generally increase as Teradyne’s common stock price increases and will generally decrease as the common stock price declines in value. The change in stock price affects the fair value of the convertible senior notes, but does not impact Teradyne’s financial position, cash flows or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligation. Additionally, we carry the Notes at face value less unamortized discount on our balance sheet, and we present the fair value for required disclosure purposes only. In connection with the offering of the Notes we also sold warrants to the option counterparties. These transactions have been accounted for as an adjustment to our shareholders’ equity. The convertible note hedge transactions are expected to reduce the potential equity dilution upon conversion of the Notes. The warrants along with any shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the average market price of our common stock for a given reporting period exceeds the applicable strike price or conversion price of the warrants or Notes, respectively.  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See Note I: “Debt” for further information.  



