PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1:  



Legal Proceedings  



We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  



 Item 1A:  



Risk Factors  



In addition to other information set forth in this Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, “Item 1A: Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K remain applicable to our business.  



The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results.  



The implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products may have a material impact on our business.  



Our business operations and supply chain are global and may be disrupted by the implementation of tariffs and export controls on our products.  



On July 6, 2018 and August 23, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 25% tariff on two lists of products, including certain Teradyne products that are made in China and imported into the United States. We have submitted requests for exclusion of our products from the tariff, but there is no assurance that our requests will be approved. We have implemented operational changes that will mitigate the impact of the 25% tariff on the import of our impacted products into the United States. As a result, we do not expect that the tariff will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  



On September 24, 2018, the United States Trade Representative imposed a 10% tariff on many additional products made in China and imported into the United States. The tariff rate is expected to increase to 25% in January 2019. At this time, we do not expect that this tariff will significantly impact any Teradyne products and thus the tariff should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  



On June 29, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce announced that it has commenced a review of new export controls focusing on emerging and foundational technologies. While there is uncertainty as to the technologies that will be covered, the new export controls could cover technologies used in one or more Teradyne products and, therefore, could impact the sale of certain Teradyne products and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  



The United States Department of Commerce from time to time has taken action to restrict the access of U.S.—origin technologies to Chinese companies by adding them to the Entity List under U.S. Export Administration Regulations. The addition to the Entity List of Chinese companies who are customers or potential customers could impact the sale and/or support of certain Teradyne products to those customers or potential customers and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  



In addition to the actions taken by the United States, China has implemented retaliatory tariffs on products made in the United States and imported into China, including certain Teradyne products. We plan to assess and implement, if appropriate, operational changes that would mitigate the impact of the retaliatory tariffs. However, notwithstanding our efforts, the retaliatory tariffs or other trade restrictions implemented by China could disrupt our business operations, sales and supply chain and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  



55   



Table of Contents 



 Item 2:  



Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock. We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we repurchased 13.8 million shares of common stock for $562.3 million at an average price of $40.62 per share.  



In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization, which commenced on January 1, 2017. During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, we repurchased 4.3 million shares of common stock for $151.8 million at an average price of $32.66 per share.  



The following table includes information with respect to repurchases we made of our common stock during the three months ended September 30, 2018 (in thousands except per share price):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



Includes 2,225 shares at an average price of $40.46 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.  



We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.  



 Item 4:  



Mine Safety Disclosures  



Not Applicable  



 Item 6:  



Exhibits  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



56   



Table of Contents 



