 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.  



 Business Overview and Environment  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated (TESSCO, we, or the Company) architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   



 Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company modified the structure of its internal organization in an effort to better serve the market place. Retail inventory typically has a shorter more defined life cycle and is, typically, ultimately used by individual end users. Commercial inventory typically has a life cycle that tends to be tied to changes in regulation or technology and includes products typically used by business entities or governments. Reflective of these differences, our sales and product teams have been reorganized and each now report to either a retail or commercial leader. The Company concluded that corresponding changes to its reportable segments are warranted and now evaluates its business within two segments: commercial and retail. The commercial segment consists of the following customer markets: (1) public carriers, that are generally responsible for building and maintaining the infrastructure system and provide airtime service to individual subscribers; (2) government including federal agencies and state and local governments that run wireless networks for their own use as well as value-added resellers who specialize in selling to the government; (3) private system operators including commercial entities such as enterprise customers, major utilities and transportation companies; (4) value-added resellers that sell, install and/or service cellular telephone, wireless networking, broadband and two-way radio communications equipment primarily for enterprise customers. The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.   



 We offer a wide range of products that are classified into four product categories: base station infrastructure; network systems; installation, test and maintenance; and mobile device accessories. Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunication systems. Sales of traditional base station infrastructure products, such as base station radios, cable and transmission lines and antennas are in part dependent on capital spending in the wireless communications industry. Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks. We have also been growing our offering of wireless broadband, distributed antennas systems (DAS), network equipment, security and surveillance products, which are not as dependent on the overall capital spending of the industry. Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, and maintain wireless communications equipment. This category is made up of sophisticated analysis equipment and various frequency, voltage and power-measuring devices, replacement parts and components as well as an assortment of tools, hardware and supplies required by service technicians. Mobile device accessories products include cellular phone and data device accessories.    



 Our third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue decreased by 0.6% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. We experienced third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 4.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%. The growth in our commercial segment is driven by increases in our government, private system operators and value-added resellers market. This growth was partially offset by a decrease in revenue in our public carrier market, which decreased by 12.1%, as compared to the same quarter last year. The decline in our public carrier market is primarily due to timing-related order delays. For the retail segment, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch. On the product side, revenue 



 19  



 Table of Contents  



increased in our base station infrastructure category by 9.8%. Revenue decreased in our network systems; our installation, test and maintenance; and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.8%, 3.9% and 7.4%, respectively, for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the same quarter last year.   



 Our third quarter fiscal year 2018 gross profit decreased by 1.2%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2017. The decrease in gross profit was primarily the result of the decrease in revenue discussed above, and in part the result of slightly compressed gross profit margins caused by changes in customer and product mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by 1.6% compared to the prior-year quarter. The new tax law signed in December also provided a benefit of approximately $0.3 million in this year’s third quarter. As a result, net income increased by 27.9% and diluted earnings per share increased by 26.7% compared to the prior-year quarter.  



 Our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors looking to us for product and supply chain solutions depends upon a number of factors. The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ. Among these factors are the strength of the customer’s or vendor’s business, the supply and demand for the product or service, including price stability, changing customer or vendor requirements, and our ability to support the customer or vendor and to continually demonstrate that we can improve the way they do business. In addition, the agreements or arrangements on which our customer and vendor relationships are based are typically of limited duration, typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice. Because of the nature of our business, we have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future. Our customer relationships could also be affected by wireless carrier consolidation or the overall global economic environment.  



 The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell direct. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessories market, and the risk of new competitors entering the marketplace is high. Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base. Our ability to maintain customer and vendor relationships is subject to competitive pressures and challenges. We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 450 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.  



 20  



 Table of Contents  



 Results of Operations  



 Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018 Compared with Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2017  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 0.6% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Within our commercial segment, revenues in our government market increased by 29.5%. This growth was concentrated within our state and local government customers as well as our government value-added resellers. We also experienced revenue growth within our private system operators and our value-added resellers markets of 8.4% and 8.0%, respectively, over the prior year quarter. Revenues in our public carrier market decreased by 12.1%, due to timing-related order delays. The growth in our commercial segment was more than offset by a decline in our retail segment of 7.9%, due, in part, to the timing of the iPhone launch. Additionally, there has been a shift in customer behavior, resulting in reduced retail store traffic, partially due to consumers keeping the same phone for longer periods of time.  



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased by 1.2% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018. This decline was primarily caused by a change in product and customer mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our government and private systems operators markets increased by 22.4% and 8.2%, respectively. Gross profit in our public carrier and our value-added reseller markets decreased by 21.9% and 2.3%, respectively. We continue to experience margin compression within the public carrier market because of changes in customer mix, including more Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 0.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to 2017, due to lower revenue, but was partially offset by customer mix and support from our vendors to win additional business.   



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 1.6% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly from 18.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, to 18.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  



 Compensation and benefits expense decreased by $1.1 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. We have undergone several efficiency initiatives during fiscal 2018 which have resulted in a reduction in headcount as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.   



 Pay for performance bonus expense (including both cash and equity plans) increased by $0.5 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Our bonus programs are typically based on achieving annual performance targets. The relationship between expected performance and actual performance led to higher bonus accruals in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.  



 21  



 Table of Contents  



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $185,300 and $103,300 for the fiscal quarter ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, respectively.   



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $37,100 for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to $114,500 for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 40.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 to 24.2% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The new law requires fiscal year companies to blend their federal tax rates this year. Our annual federal rate for fiscal 2018 will be based on 9 months at the old 35% rate and 3 months at the new 21% rate. We were also able to take a benefit on our net deferred tax liabilities this quarter, which are now reflective of the lower federal rate. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased 27.9% and diluted earnings per share increased 26.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   



 First Nine Months of Fiscal Year 2018 Compared with First Nine Months of Fiscal Year 2017  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased 5.0% compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 25.9%, largely due to increased spending among our tower owner and program manager customers, and also due in part to better execution of our selling strategy in this market. This growth was echoed in our value-added resellers and our private system operators markets with increases of 4.8% and 9.1%, respectively, over the prior year period. Our government market revenue increased 11.3% due to fruition of several projects that had been previously delayed. The growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decline in our retail segment of 5.5% due, in part, to consolidation of our customer base within this market and due to a shift in customer behavior where customers are keeping the same phone for longer periods of time.  



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased by 3.3% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carriers market increased by 7.4%. Gross profit in our government and our private system operator markets increased by 9.8% and 6.3%, respectively. This growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decrease in our value-added resellers market revenue of 3.0%. Within our retail market, gross profit increased by 5.0% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 as compared to 2017. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 20.9% in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 to 20.6% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018. This decline was primarily caused by a change in product and customer mix, including the increase in lower margin sales in our public carrier market.   



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are 



 22  



 Table of Contents  



terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 0.5% or $0.4 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2017, to 19.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.  



 Compensation and benefit expense decreased by $0.8 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. We have undergone several efficiency initiatives during fiscal 2018 which has resulted in a reduction in headcount as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2017.  



 Pay for performance bonus expense (including both cash and equity plans) increased by $2.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Our bonus programs are typically based on achieving annual performance targets. The relationship between expected performance and actual performance led to higher bonus accruals in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, as compared to the first nine month of fiscal 2017.  



 Corporate Support expense decreased by $1.5 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 primarily related to decreases in recruiting, bad debt, and new product development expenses. The decrease in recruiting expense relates to our CEO recruitment efforts in the first half of fiscal 2017.   



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $433,200 and $633,500 for the nine months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, respectively. There were several bad debt recoveries in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, causing an abnormally low year to date expense.   



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $65,700 for the first nine of fiscal 2017 to $339,600 for the first nine months of fiscal 2018. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.  



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 45.7% for the first nine months of fiscal 2017 to 36.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018. The effective tax rate was lower primarily due to a change in tax law that went into effect in the third quarter. The new law requires fiscal year companies to blend their federal tax rates this year. Our annual federal rate for fiscal 2018 will be based on 9 months at the old 35% rate and 3 months at the new 21% rate. We were also able to take a benefit on our net deferred tax liabilities this quarter, which are now reflective of the lower federal rate. Our provision for income taxes increased by 21.6% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017, primarily as a result of higher income before provision for income taxes, but partially offset by the benefits from the new tax law. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased 74.9% and diluted earnings per share increased 71.4% for the first nine month of fiscal 2018, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.  



 23  



 Table of Contents  



 Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 The following table summarizes our cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing and financing activities for the nine months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 We used $7.3 million of net cash from operating activities for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared with net cash provided by operating activities of $0.6 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017. This fiscal 2018 outflow was driven by an increase in accounts receivable and product inventory, partially offset by net income and an increase in accounts payable. Increasing sales to our public carrier customers required significant investments in inventory and at times results in larger accounts receivable balances. Accounts payable also increased in response to our higher inventory levels. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business have required an increase in working capital investments. As such, on October 19, 2017 we entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as discussed below, based upon our anticipated borrowing and cash needs.  



 Net cash used in investing activities of $2.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was up from expenditures of $1.9 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2017. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   



 Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, compared to $7.2 million used in the first nine months of fiscal 2017. During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility, leading to a cash inflow of $5.9 million. During the first nine months of each of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, we had cash outflows of $5.0 million due to cash dividends paid to shareholders. Additionally, during the first nine months of fiscal 2017, we had a cash outflow of $1.9 million relating to the repayment of our term loan. As discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, cash flows associated with the tax impact of employee stock compensation are now included as a cash flow from operating activities. All amounts disclosed above have been adjusted to reflect this change.   



 On June 24, 2016, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, for a senior asset based secured revolving credit facility of up to $35 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”). This replaced our previously existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement. The replacement Revolving Credit Facility included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. Borrowing Availability under the replacement Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established is determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves.   



 The Credit Agreement also set forth financial covenants, including a fixed charge coverage ratio to be 



 24  



 Table of Contents  



maintained at any time during which the borrowing availability, as determined in accordance with the Credit Agreement, falls below $10 million, as well as terms that could limit our ability to engage in specified transactions or activities, including (but not limited to) investments and acquisitions, sales of assets, payment of dividends, issuance of additional debt and other matters.   



 Pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which include the obligations under the Credit Agreement, are guaranteed by those Loan Parties which are not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and in all proceeds of the foregoing. The security interests are granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time. The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.  



 Effective July 13, 2017, we entered into a First Amendment to Credit Agreement, pursuant to which, the term “Availability” as used in the Credit Agreement was amended for a period of time ending no later than October 31, 2017, to allow for the inclusion of an additional sum when calculating “Availability” for certain limited purposes. This additional sum equals the lesser of $10 million, and the amount by which the Borrowing Base exceeds $35 million. This First Amendment did not provide for any increase in the $35 million Aggregate Revolving Commitment Amount, but allowed the Company greater flexibility under the Credit Agreement for a limited period of time, until October 31, 2017, and was sought by the Company in response to business opportunities identified by the Company. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this and the preceding three paragraphs have the meanings ascribed to each in the Credit Agreement or First Amendment, as applicable.   



 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender (the "Amended and Restated Credit Agreement"). Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility, as previously established in June 2016, was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in this and the following three paragraphs have the meanings ascribed to each in the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.   



 In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility extends the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit, a $12.5 million sublimit for swingline loans and an accordion feature which, subject to certain conditions, could increase the aggregate amount of the commitments to up to $125 million, with the optional commitments being provided by existing Lenders or new lenders reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent. No Lender is obligated to increase its commitment. Availability is determined in accordance with a Borrowing Base, which has been expanded to include not only Eligible Receivables but also Eligible Inventory and is generally: (A) the sum of (i) 85% of Eligible Receivables; (ii) the Inventory Formula Amount for all Eligible Inventory which is aged 



 25  



 Table of Contents  



less than 181 days; and (iii) the lesser of (x) $4 million and (y) the Inventory Formula Amount for all Eligible Inventory which is aged at least 181 days; minus (B) Reserves. Upon closing, there was $23.4 million outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.   



 Like the secured Revolving Credit Facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement initially accrue interest from the applicable borrowing date at an Applicable Rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin. The Eurodollar Rate is the rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) LIBOR by (ii) a percentage equal to 1.00 minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage. When the Applicable Rate is the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Applicable Margin is 1.50% if Average Availability is greater than or equal to $15 million, and 1.75% otherwise. Under certain circumstances, the Applicable Rate is subject to change at the Lenders’ option from the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin. In any event, following an Event of Default, in addition to changing the Applicable Rate to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Lenders’ may at their option set the Applicable Margin at 0.50% if the Base Rate applies or 1.75% if the Eurodollar Rate applies, and increase the Applicable Rate by an additional 200 basis points. The Applicable Rate adjusts on the first Business Day of each calendar month. The Company is required to pay a monthly Commitment Fee on the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, at a per annum rate equal to 0.25%. As of December 24, 2017, we had a $5.9 million balance on the Revolving Credit Facility; therefore, we had $69.1 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.  



 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and the other Loan Parties executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by the Loan Parties in connection with the secured credit facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.   



 On March 31, 2009, we entered into a term loan with the Baltimore County Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund for an aggregate principal amount of $250,000. The term loan is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of $2,300, with the balance due at maturity on April 1, 2019. The term loan bears interest at 2.00% per annum and is secured by a subordinate position on our Hunt Valley, Maryland facility. At December 24, 2017, the principal balance of this term loan was $36,300.  



 We have made quarterly dividend payments to holders of our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Our most recent quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share was paid in November 2017. On January 23, 2018, we declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share, payable on February 28, 2018 to shareholders of record as of February 14, 2018.   



 Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.   



 We believe that our existing cash, payments from customers and availability under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to support our operations for at least the next twelve months. To minimize interest expense, our policy is to apply excess available cash to reduce the balance outstanding from time to time on 



 26  



 Table of Contents  



our Revolving Credit Facility. Our increased focus over the past several quarters on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers led to the recent expansion of our Revolving Credit Facility, and has at times resulted in increased borrowings and dependence on that facility. We expect this trend to continue, although at present we have no plans for any further expansion of the facility. If we were to undertake an acquisition or other major capital purchases that require funds in excess of existing sources of liquidity, we would look to sources of funding from additional credit facilities, debt and/or equity issuances. As of December 24, 2017, we do not have any material capital expenditure commitments.  



 In addition, our liquidity could be negatively impacted by decreasing revenues and profits resulting from a decrease in demand for our products or a reduction in capital expenditures by our customers, or by the weakened financial conditions of our customers or suppliers, in each case as a result of a downturn in the global economy, among other factors.  



 Recent Accounting Pronouncements   



 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  



 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   



 Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.   



 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.   



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.  



 Forward-Looking Statements  



 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of the words “may,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, but the absence of these words or phrases does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward looking. Forward looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those described in or contemplated by any such forward-looking statement for a variety of reasons, including those risks identified in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and other periodic reports filed with the SEC, under the heading “Risk Factors” and otherwise. Consequently, the reader is cautioned to consider all forward-looking statements in light of the risks to which they are subject.  



 We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. Without limiting the risks that we describe in our periodic reports and elsewhere, among the risks that could lead to a materially adverse impact on our business or operating results 



 27  



 Table of Contents  



are the following: termination or non-renewal of limited duration agreements or arrangements with our vendors and affinity partners that are typically terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice; loss of significant customers or relationships, including affinity relationships; loss of customers either directly or indirectly as a result of consolidation among large wireless service carriers and others within the wireless communications industry; the strength of our customers', vendors' and affinity partners' business; increasingly negative or prolonged adverse economic conditions, including those adversely affecting consumer confidence or consumer or business spending, or otherwise adversely affecting our vendors or customers, including their access to capital or liquidity or our customers’ demand for, or ability to fund or pay for, our products and services; our dependence on a relatively small number of suppliers and vendors, which could hamper our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and meet customer demand; changes in customer and product mix that affects gross margin; effect of “conflict minerals” regulations on the supply and cost of certain of our products; failure of our information technology system or distribution system; system security or data protection breaches; technology changes in the wireless communications industry, or technological failures, which could lead to significant inventory obsolescence and/or our inability to offer key products that our customers demand; third-party freight carrier interruption; increased competition, including from manufacturers or national and regional distributors of the products we sell and the absence of significant barriers to entry which could result in pricing and other pressures on profitability and market share; our relative bargaining power and inability to negotiate favorable terms with our vendors and customers; our inability to access capital and obtain financing as and when needed; claims against us for breach of the intellectual property rights of third parties; product liability claims; our inability to protect certain intellectual property, including systems and technologies on which we rely; our inability to hire or retain our key professionals, management and staff; and the possibility that, for unforeseen reasons, we may be delayed in entering into or performing, or may fail to enter into or perform, anticipated contracts or may otherwise be delayed in realizing or fail to realize anticipated revenues or anticipated savings.  



 Available Information  



 Our internet website address is: www.tessco.com. We make available free of charge through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on our Website is our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.   



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.   



 None.  



