 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.  



 Business Overview and Environment  



 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 98% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   



 The Company evaluates its business within two segments: commercial and retail. The commercial segment consists of the following customer markets: (1) public carriers, that are generally responsible for building and maintaining the infrastructure system and provide airtime service to individual subscribers; (2) government, including federal agencies and state and local governments that run wireless networks for their own use, as well as value-added resellers who specialize in selling to the government; (3) private system operators, including commercial entities such as enterprise customers, major utilities and transportation companies; and (4) value-added resellers that sell, install and/or service cellular telephone, wireless networking, broadband and two-way radio communications equipment primarily for enterprise customers. The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.   



 We offer a wide range of products that are classified into four product categories: base station infrastructure; network systems; installation, test and maintenance; and mobile device accessories. Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunication systems. Sales of traditional base station infrastructure products, such as base station radios, cable and transmission lines and antennas are in part dependent on capital spending in the wireless communications industry. Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks. We have also been growing our offering of wireless broadband, distributed antennas systems (DAS), network equipment, security and surveillance products, which are not as dependent on the overall capital spending of the industry. Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, and maintain wireless communications equipment. This category is made up of sophisticated analysis equipment and various frequency, voltage and power-measuring devices, replacement parts and components as well as an assortment of tools, hardware and supplies required by service technicians. Mobile device accessories products include cellular phone and data device accessories.    



 Our first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 7.8% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We experienced first quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segments of 16.2% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018. The growth in our commercial segment was driven by increases in our public carrier, government and, private system operators markets. For the retail segment, year over year, revenue declined due, in part, to the timing of two Samsung Galaxy phone launches. The prior launch occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, while the most recent launch instead occurred in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, contributing to a decline in year over year first quarter revenue. On the product side, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure and our installation, test and maintenance categories by 25.8% and 6.3%, respectively. Revenue decreased in our network systems and our mobile device accessories categories by 4.4% and 7.4%, respectively, for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the same quarter last year.   



 Our first quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 5.3%, compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above, and in 



 16  



 Table of Contents  



part the result of slightly compressed gross profit margins caused by changes in customer and product mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period and a larger percentage of overall sales from the public carrier market. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 3.9% compared to the prior-year quarter. The new tax law that went into effect in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 resulted in a significantly lower tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased by 69.6% and diluted earnings per share increased by 62.5% compared to the prior-year quarter.  



 Our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors looking to us for product and supply chain solutions depends upon a number of factors. The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ. Among these factors are the strength of the customer’s or vendor’s business, the supply and demand for the product or service, including price stability, changing customer or vendor requirements, and our ability to support the customer or vendor and to continually demonstrate that we can improve the way they do business. In addition, the agreements or arrangements on which our customer and vendor relationships are based are typically of limited duration, typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice. Because of the nature of our business, we have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future. Our customer relationships could also be affected by wireless carrier consolidation or the overall global economic environment.  



 The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell direct. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessories market, and the risk of new competitors entering the marketplace is high. Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base. Our ability to maintain customer and vendor relationships is subject to competitive pressures and challenges. We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.  



 17  



 Table of Contents  



 Results of Operations  



 First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2019 Compared with First Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 7.8% compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 51.7%. This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. We also experienced revenue growth within our government and private system operators markets of 9.3% and 2.8%, respectively, over the prior year quarter. The increase in revenue from our government market was primarily related to increased spending by government contractors related to state and local government fiscal year ends. The increase in revenue for our private system operators is primarily driven by increases from manufacturing and mining customers. Revenues in our value-added resellers market decreased slightly by 1.0%. The growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decline in our retail segment of 7.9%, as compared to the first fiscal quarter of 2018. The first fiscal quarter of 2018 included retail segment revenue associated with the introduction by Samsung of a new Galaxy phone. This year, Samsung again introduced a new Galaxy phone, but did so earlier in the calendar year, leading to the receipt of a significant portion of related revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, instead of the first quarter of fiscal 2019.   



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 5.2% compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Overall gross profit margin decreased slightly from 20.8% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. This decline was caused primarily by a change in product and customer mix, including a lower percentage of proprietary Ventev® sales as compared to the prior year period. Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier, government, and private system operator markets increased by 36.3%, 6.6%, and 5.6%, respectively. Gross profit in our value-added reseller markets decreased slightly by 0.5%. We continue to experience margin compression within the public carrier market because of changes in customer mix, including a higher percentage of sales to Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors. Within our retail market, gross profit decreased by 3.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 2018, due to lower revenue, but was partially offset by changes in customer mix and support from our vendors to secure additional business.   



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and vendors depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and vendor relationships, and we may continue to be so affected in the future.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased 3.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, to 19.2% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.  



 The increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the increase in our information technology expense of $0.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We continue to invest in our information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives.   



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an 



 18  



 Table of Contents  



appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense of $356,200 and $231,000 for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 and June 25, 2017, respectively.   



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $68,600 for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to $174,400 for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 43.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 to 25.9% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law. The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act. As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased 69.6% and diluted earnings per share increased 62.5% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   



 Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 The following table summarizes our cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing and financing activities for the three months ended July 1, 2018 and June 25, 2017.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 We used $1.7 million of net cash from operating activities for the first three months of fiscal 2019, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $14.1 million for the first three months of fiscal 2018. This fiscal 2018 outflow was driven by an increase in accounts receivable and product inventory, partially offset by net income and an increase in accounts payable. We have determined that increasing sales to our public carrier customers requires significant investments in inventory, which times results in larger accounts receivable balances. Accounts payable also increased in response to higher inventory levels. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business have required an increase in working capital investments. As such, on October 19, 2017 we entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as discussed below, based upon our anticipated borrowing and cash needs.  



 Net cash used in investing activities of $1.4 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019 was up from expenditures of $0.8 million for the first three months of fiscal 2018. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   



 Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.1 million for the first three months of fiscal 2019, compared to $6.6 million provided in the first three months of fiscal 2018. During the first three months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, we utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility, leading to a cash inflow of $4.9 million 



 19  



 Table of Contents  



and $8.3 million, respectively. During the first three months of each of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, we had cash outflows of $1.7 million due to cash dividends paid to shareholders.   



 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with the Company’s primary lenders. Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility previously established in June 2016, was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million. In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility extends the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021. As of July 1, 2018, we had a $15.8 million balance on the Revolving Credit Facility; therefore, we had $59.2 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and the other Company affiliate borrowers and subsidiaries, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by the Loan Parties in connection with the secured credit facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.   



 On March 31, 2009, we entered into a term loan with the Baltimore County Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund for an aggregate principal amount of $250,000. The term loan is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of $2,300, with the balance due at maturity on April 1, 2019. The term loan bears interest at 2.00% per annum and is secured by a subordinate position on our Hunt Valley, Maryland facility. At July 1, 2018, the principal balance of this term loan was $22,800.  



 We have made quarterly dividend payments to holders of our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Our most recent quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share was paid in June 2018. On July 16, 2018, we declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share, payable on August 15, 2018 to shareholders of record as of August 1, 2018.   



 Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.   



 We believe that our existing cash, payments from customers and availability under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to support our operations for at least the next twelve months. To minimize interest expense, our policy is to apply excess available cash to reduce the balance outstanding from time to time on our Revolving Credit Facility. Our increased focus over the past several quarters on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers led to the recent expansion of our Revolving Credit Facility, and has at times resulted in increased borrowings and dependence on that facility. We expect this trend to continue, although at present we have no plans for any further expansion of the facility. If we were to undertake an acquisition or other major capital purchases that require funds in excess of existing sources of liquidity, we would look to sources of funding from additional credit facilities, debt and/or equity issuances. As of July 1, 2018, we do not have any material capital expenditure commitments.  



 20  



 Table of Contents  



 In addition, our liquidity could be negatively impacted by decreasing revenues and profits resulting from a decrease in demand for our products or a reduction in capital expenditures by our customers, or by the weakened financial conditions of our customers or suppliers, in each case as a result of a downturn in the global economy, among other factors.  



 Recent Accounting Pronouncements   



 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  



 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   



 Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.   



 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.   



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.  



 Forward-Looking Statements  



 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of the words “may,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” and similar expressions, but the absence of these words or phrases does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward looking. Forward looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those described in or contemplated by any such forward-looking statement for a variety of reasons, including those risks identified in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and other periodic reports filed with the SEC, under the heading “Risk Factors” and otherwise. Consequently, the reader is cautioned to consider all forward-looking statements in light of the risks to which they are subject.  



 We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. Without limiting the risks that we describe in our periodic reports and elsewhere, among the risks that could lead to a materially adverse impact on our business or operating results are the following: termination or non-renewal of limited duration agreements or arrangements with our vendors and affinity partners that are typically terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice; loss of significant customers or relationships, including affinity relationships; loss of customers either directly or indirectly as a result of consolidation among large wireless service carriers and others within the wireless communications industry; the strength of our customers', vendors' and affinity partners' business; increasingly negative or prolonged adverse economic conditions, including those adversely affecting consumer confidence or consumer or business spending, or otherwise adversely affecting our vendors or customers, 



 21  



 Table of Contents  



including their access to capital or liquidity or our customers’ demand for, or ability to fund or pay for, our products and services; our dependence on a relatively small number of suppliers and vendors, which could hamper our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and meet customer demand; changes in customer and product mix that affects gross margin; effect of “conflict minerals” regulations on the supply and cost of certain of our products; failure of our information technology system or distribution system; system security or data protection breaches; technology changes in the wireless communications industry, or technological failures, which could lead to significant inventory obsolescence and/or our inability to offer key products that our customers demand; third-party freight carrier interruption; increased competition, including from manufacturers or national and regional distributors of the products we sell and the absence of significant barriers to entry which could result in pricing and other pressures on profitability and market share; our relative bargaining power and inability to negotiate favorable terms with our vendors and customers; our inability to access capital and obtain financing as and when needed; claims against us for breach of the intellectual property rights of third parties; product liability claims; our inability to protect certain intellectual property, including systems and technologies on which we rely; our inability to hire or retain our key professionals, management and staff; and the possibility that, for unforeseen reasons, we may be delayed in entering into or performing, or may fail to enter into or perform, anticipated contracts or may otherwise be delayed in realizing or fail to realize anticipated revenues or anticipated savings.  



 Available Information  



 Our internet website address is: www.tessco.com. We make available free of charge through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on our Website is our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.   



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.   



 None.  



