 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.  



 Business Overview and Environment  



 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems. Although we sell products to customers in many countries, approximately 97% of our sales are made to customers in the United States. We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.   



 The Company evaluates its business within two segments: commercial and retail. The commercial segment consists of the following customer markets: (1) public carriers, that are generally responsible for building and maintaining the infrastructure system and provide airtime service to individual subscribers; and (2) value-added resellers and integrators, which results from the consolidation of our previously identified value-added resellers, government channels and private system operator markets, and reflects implementation over the 2019 fiscal year of an enhanced go-to-market strategy. This go-to-market strategy and the corresponding consolidation of these customer markets is designed to increase sales opportunities across the consolidated markets, as well as to provide better coverage to customers and to better align territories with supplier partners. The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.   



 We offer a wide range of products that are classified into four product categories: base station infrastructure; network systems; installation, test and maintenance; and mobile device accessories. Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunication systems. Sales of traditional base station infrastructure products, such as base station radios, cable and transmission lines and antennas are in part dependent on capital spending in the wireless communications industry. Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks. We have also been growing our offering of wireless broadband, distributed antennas systems (DAS), network equipment, security and surveillance products, which are not as dependent on the overall capital spending of the industry. Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, and maintain wireless communications equipment. This category is made up of sophisticated analysis equipment and various frequency, voltage and power-measuring devices, replacement parts and components as well as an assortment of tools, hardware and supplies required by service technicians. Mobile device accessories products include cellular phone and data device accessories.    



 Our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and suppliers looking to us for product and supply chain solutions depends upon a number of factors. The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ. Among these factors are the strength of the customer’s or supplier’s business, the supply and demand for the product or service, including price stability, changing customer or supplier requirements, and our ability to support the customer or supplier and to continually demonstrate that we can improve the way they do business. In addition, the agreements or arrangements on which our customer and supplier relationships are based are typically of limited duration, typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale and are terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice. Because of the nature of our business, we have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and supplier relationships, and expect that we will again be so affected from time to time in the future. Our customer relationships could 



 17  



 Table of Contents  



also be affected by wireless carrier consolidation or the overall global economic environment.  



 The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors. In addition, many manufacturers sell direct. Barriers to entry for distributors are relatively low, particularly in the mobile devices and accessories market, and the risk of new competitors entering the marketplace is high. Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base. Our ability to maintain customer and supplier relationships is subject to competitive pressures and challenges. We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 400 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.  



 Results of Operations  



 Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2020 Compared with Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2019  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased 10.6% compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Revenues in our public carrier market, value-added resellers and integrators market and retail market decreased by 1.3%, 6.1% and 24.1%, respectively. The decline in the commercial segment was primarily due to a decrease in revenue in our value-added resellers and integrators market where we are not yet realizing the full benefits of our sales reorganization. The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.  



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 decreased by 16.2% compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019. This decrease was primarily due to lower sales volume combined with the impact of tariffs. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 19.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 18.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Within our commercial segment, gross profit margin in our public carrier market increased from 12.0% to 12.4% due to changes in customer mix. Gross profit margin in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased from 24.6% to 23.8%. This decline was due to a change in product mix, including lower sales of our higher margin Ventev products in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Within our retail segment, gross profit margin decreased from 19.3% to 16.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to 2019, primarily due to the impact of tariffs.  



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and suppliers depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and supplier relationships, and expect that we will again be so affected from time to time in the future.   



 Selling, General, Administrative and Restructuring Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $3.7 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 18.6% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, to 18.2% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.  



 18  



 Table of Contents  



 The decrease in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease of $1.5 in freight expense, $1.0 million in compensation expense, $0.7 million in rewards expense, and $0.6 million in marketing expense, during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the second quarter of fiscal 2019. These decreases were largely due to the decline in overall revenues.   



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We had bad debt recovery, net of expense, of $107,900 and bad debt expense of $665,100 for the three months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.   



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $244,800 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to $335,100 for the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate increased from 28.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 to 90.8% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020. The increase in the effective tax rate is the result of permanent and other tax adjustments remaining consistent year over year while pre-tax income decreased year over year. The significant increase in rates is also due to a change in estimated fiscal year pre-tax earnings from the first quarter of fiscal 2020 to the second quarter of fiscal 2020, resulting in a significant adjustment in this quarter’s rate. Net income decreased 98.2% and diluted earnings per share decreased 100% for the second quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.   



 First Six Months of Fiscal Year 2020 Compared with First Six Months of Fiscal Year 2019  



 Total Revenues. Revenues for the first six months of fiscal 2019 decreased 12.0% compared with the first six months of fiscal 2019. Revenues in our public carrier market, value-added resellers and integrators market and retail market decreased by 9.2%, 3.4% and 26.3%, respectively. The decline in the commercial segment was primarily due to the project-oriented nature of this business. Several large customers adjusted their forecasts or pushed out their product requirements from the first six months into the remainder of the fiscal year. The decline in the retail segment was driven by significantly lower revenues from one of our more significant retail customers following its acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, change in business model and subsequent transition of its business elsewhere, as well as ongoing overall market softness.  



 Total Gross Profit. Gross profit for the first six months of fiscal 2020 decreased by 16.9% compared to the first six months of fiscal 2019. This decrease was primarily due to lower sales volume combined with the impact of tariffs. Overall gross profit margin decreased from 20.1% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 to 18.9% in the first six months of fiscal 2020. Within our commercial segment, gross profit margin in our public carrier market and value-added resellers and integrators market decreased slightly from 13.0% to 12.5%, and 24.5% to 24.1%, respectively due to changes in customer mix. Within our retail segment, gross profit margin decreased from 19.8% to 15.9% in the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared to 2019, primarily due to the impact of tariffs and inventory write-offs.  



 As discussed above under the heading “Business Overview and Environment,” our ongoing ability to earn revenues and gross profits from customers and suppliers depends upon a number of factors which often differ for each relationship. Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not 



 19  



 Table of Contents  



include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice. We have been affected from time to time in the past by the loss and changes in the business habits of significant customer and supplier relationships, and expect that we will again be so affected from time to time in the future.   



 Selling, General, Administrative and Restructuring Expenses. Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $4.6 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared to the first six months of fiscal 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased from 18.9% for the first six months of fiscal 2019, to 19.8% for the first six months of fiscal 2020.  



 The decrease in our selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to a decrease of $1.5 million in freight expense, $1.5 million in compensation expense, and $1.4 million in rewards expense, during the first six months of fiscal 2020 as compared to the first six months of fiscal 2019. These decreases were largely due to the decline in overall revenues.  



 The Company also incurred a $0.5 million restructuring charge related to severance expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2020.  



 We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation. We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation. We incurred bad debt expense, net of recovery, of $27,500 and $1,021,300 for the six months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.   



 Interest, Net. Net interest expense increased from $419,200 for the first six months of fiscal 2019 to $543,800 for the first six months of fiscal 2020. Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.   



 Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share. The effective tax rate decreased from 27.4% for the first six months of fiscal 2019 to 24.9% for the first six months of fiscal 2020. Net income decreased 205.2% and diluted earnings per share decreased 207.4% for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared to the first six months of fiscal 2019.   



 Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 The following table summarizes our cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing and financing activities for the six months ended September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 20  



 Table of Contents  



 We used $14.0 million of net cash from operating activities for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $3.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019. This fiscal 2020 outflow was driven by a net loss and an increase in inventory. Both current and potential opportunities within our public carrier business caused a significant investment in inventory.   



 Net cash used in investing activities of $3.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020 increased from cash used of $2.3 million for the first six months of fiscal 2019. Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.   



 Net cash provided by financing activities was $17.4 million for the first six months of fiscal 2020, compared to $5.5 million provided in the first six months of fiscal 2019. We utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility during the first six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019, leading to a cash inflow of $20.9 million and $8.9 million, respectively, during those periods. We had cash outflows of $3.4 million during the first six months of both fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, due to cash dividends paid to shareholders.   



 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a lender (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”), which amended and restated the terms of a previously established secured Revolving Credit Facility and which resulted in, among other modifications, an increase in the Company’s borrowing limit to up to $75 million, from the previous borrowing limit of up to $35 million. In addition to increasing the borrowing limit, and among other modifications, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement extended the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021. As of September 29, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $35.3 million; therefore, we then had $39.7 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement accrue interest at the rates, and the Company is required to pay a monthly commitment fee, as also discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.  



 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and other subsidiaries, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement previously delivered by the Loan Parties in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.   



 We have made quarterly dividend payments to holders of our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Our most recent quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share was paid in August 2019. On October 29, 2019, our Board declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share, payable on November 27, 2019 to shareholders of record as of November 13, 2019.   



 Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.   



 21  



 Table of Contents  



 We believe that our existing cash, payments from customers and availability under our secured Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to support our operations for at least the next twelve months. To minimize interest expense, our policy is to apply excess available cash to reduce the balance outstanding from time to time on our secured Revolving Credit Facility. Our increased focus over the past several quarters on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers led to the recent expansion of our secured Revolving Credit Facility, and has at times resulted in increased borrowings and dependence on that facility. We expect this trend to continue, although at present we have no plans for any further expansion of the facility. If we were to undertake an acquisition or other major capital purchases that require funds in excess of existing sources of liquidity, we would look to sources of funding from additional credit facilities, debt and/or equity issuances. As of September 29, 2019, we do not have any material capital expenditure commitments.  



 In addition, our liquidity could be negatively impacted by decreasing revenues and profits resulting from a decrease in demand for our products or a reduction in capital expenditures by our customers, or by the weakened financial conditions of our customers or suppliers, in each case as a result of a downturn in the global economy, among other factors.  



 Recent Accounting Pronouncements   



 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.  



 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates   



 Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.   



 For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.   



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.  



 Forward-Looking Statements  



 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements may generally be identified by the use of the words “may,” “will,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “projects,” “plans,” “should,” “would,” “could,” and similar expressions, but the absence of these words or phrases does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward looking. Forward looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those described in or contemplated by any such forward-looking statement for a variety of reasons, including those risks identified in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, this 



 22  



 Table of Contents  



Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and other periodic reports filed with the SEC, under the heading “Risk Factors” and otherwise. Consequently, the reader is cautioned to consider all forward-looking statements in light of the risks to which they are subject.  



 We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. Without limiting the risks that we describe in our periodic reports and elsewhere, among the risks that could lead to a materially adverse impact on our business or operating results are the following: termination or non-renewal of limited duration agreements or arrangements with our vendors and affinity partners that are typically terminable by either party upon several months or otherwise relatively short notice; loss of significant customers or relationships, including affinity relationships; loss of customers either directly or indirectly as a result of consolidation among large wireless service carriers and others within the wireless communications industry; the strength of our customers', vendors' and affinity partners' business; increasingly negative or prolonged adverse economic conditions, including those adversely affecting consumer confidence or consumer or business spending, or otherwise adversely affecting our vendors or customers, including their access to capital or liquidity or our customers’ demand for, or ability to fund or pay for, our products and services; our dependence on a relatively small number of suppliers and vendors, which could hamper our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and meet customer demand; changes in customer and product mix that affects gross margin; effect of “conflict minerals” regulations on the supply and cost of certain of our products; failure of our information technology system or distribution system; system security or data protection breaches; technology changes in the wireless communications industry, or technological failures, which could lead to significant inventory obsolescence and/or our inability to offer key products that our customers demand; third-party freight carrier interruption; increased competition, including from manufacturers or national and regional distributors of the products we sell and the absence of significant barriers to entry which could result in pricing and other pressures on profitability and market share; our relative bargaining power and inability to negotiate favorable terms with our vendors and customers; our inability to access capital and obtain financing as and when needed; claims against us for breach of the intellectual property rights of third parties; product liability claims; our inability to protect certain intellectual property, including systems and technologies on which we rely; our inability to hire or retain our key professionals, management and staff; and the possibility that, for unforeseen reasons, we may be delayed in entering into or performing, or may fail to enter into or perform, anticipated contracts or may otherwise be delayed in realizing or fail to realize anticipated revenues or anticipated savings.  



 Available Information  



 Our internet website address is: www.tessco.com. We make available free of charge through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on our Website is our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.   



 Item 4. Controls and Procedures.  



 The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report. Controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of these controls and 



 23  



 Table of Contents  



procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of the Exchange Act, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. During the period covered by this quarterly report, there have been no changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  



 PART II. OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1. Legal Proceedings.  



 Lawsuits and claims are filed against us from time to time in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that any lawsuits or claims currently pending against the Company, individually or in the aggregate, are material, or will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, from time to time, we are also subject to review from federal and state taxing authorities in order to validate the amounts of income, sales and/or use taxes which have been claimed and remitted. Currently, our California sales tax returns for the period January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2018 and Illinois sales tax returns for the period March 1, 2018 through July 31, 2018 are under examination by applicable taxing authorities.  



 As we are routinely audited by state taxing authorities, we have estimated exposure and established reserves for our estimated sales tax audit liability.  



 Item 1A. Risk Factors.  



 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. Nevertheless, information that we have disclosed or will disclose from time to time in our public filings (including this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other periodic reports filed under the Exchange Act) may provide additional data or information relative to our previously disclosed risk factors. We are not able to identify or control all circumstances that could occur in the future that may adversely affect our business and operating results. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on, or that management currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.  



 Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.   



 None.  



