PART II – OTHER INFORMATION 



ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. 



Information concerning our risk factors is contained in Item 1A of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and is incorporated by reference herein. 



ITEM 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. 



The following table contains information regarding our purchases of our common stock during the quarter. 



ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(a)  



All open-market purchases during the quarter were made under the authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to $7.5 billion of additional shares of TI common stock announced September 17, 2015. On September 21, 2017, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $6.0 billion of our common stock, and on September 20, 2018, our board of directors authorized the purchase of an additional $12.0 billion of our common stock. 



(b)  



In addition to open-market purchases, 37,665 shares of common stock were surrendered by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units. 



(c)  



As of September 30, 2018, this amount consisted of the remaining portion of the $7.5 billion authorized in September 2015, the $6.0 billion authorized in September 2017 and the $12.0 billion authorized in September 2018. No expiration date has been specified for these authorizations.



23 



ITEM 6. Exhibits. 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



24 



Notice regarding forward-looking statements 



This report includes forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by phrases such as TI or its management “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “foresees,” “forecasts,” “estimates” or other words or phrases of similar import. Similarly, statements herein that describe TI’s business strategy, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals also are forward-looking statements. All such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements.  



We urge you to carefully consider the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations of TI or our management: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



25 



For a more detailed discussion of these factors see the Risk Factors discussion in Item 1A of our most recent Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. If we do update any forward-looking statement, you should not infer that we will make additional updates with respect to that statement or any other forward-looking statement. 



26 



