 Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  



We are exposed to financial market risk, including interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk.  



Concentration of Revenue and Credit Risk  



Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade receivables. Cash equivalents consist primarily of bank deposits and certain investments, such as commercial paper, corporate debt and municipal securities, with maturities less than 90 days. Deposits of cash held outside the United States totaled approximately $26.1 million and $24.3 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.  



We grant credit to customers in the ordinary course of business. Credit evaluations are performed on an ongoing basis to reduce credit risk, and no collateral is required from our customers. An allowance for uncollectible accounts is provided for those accounts receivable considered to be uncollectible based upon historical experience and credit evaluation. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, no customers individually accounted for 10% or more of our gross accounts receivable. Due to the nature of our quarterly revenue streams derived from royalty revenue, it is not unusual for our accounts receivable balances to include a few customers with large balances. Historically, we have not recorded material losses due to customers’ nonpayment. Our Creative Professional business consists of a higher volume of lower dollar value transactions. Accordingly, as the percent of Creative Professional revenue increases in relation to total revenue, we expect the average time to collect our accounts receivables, and our overall accounts receivables balances, to increase.  



For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue.  



Interest Rate Risk  



Our exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to our long-term debt. At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had borrowings under our revolving Credit Facility of $90.0 million and $93.0 million, respectively. The interest rate on our Credit Facility fluctuates with either the prime rate or the LIBOR interest rate and at March 31, 2018, our rate was 3.6% for LIBOR. A 10% increase in the rate would have increased our interest expense by $0.9 million.  



27  



Table of Contents 



Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  



In accordance with ASC Topic No. 830, Foreign Currency Matters, or ASC 830, all assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated into U.S. dollars at an exchange rate as of the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses of these subsidiaries are translated at the average monthly exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustments as calculated from the translation of our foreign subsidiaries to U.S. dollars are recorded as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, revenue from customers outside the United States, particularly EMEA and Japan, comprised 56.2% and 55.0%, respectively, of our total revenue. An effect of a 10% strengthening of the British pound sterling, the Euro Japanese yen and the Argentine peso, relative to the U.S. dollar, would have decreased our revenues by $2.0 million, decreased expenses by $2.4 million and increased operating income by $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The sensitivity analysis assumes that all currencies move in the same direction at the same time and the ratio of non-U.S. dollar denominated revenue and expenses to U.S. dollar denominated revenue and expenses does not change from current levels.  



We incur foreign currency exchange gains and losses related to certain customers that are invoiced in U.S. dollars, but who have the option to make an equivalent payment in their own functional currencies at a specified exchange rate as of a specified date. In the period from that date until payment in the customer’s functional currency is received and converted into U.S. dollars, we can incur realized gains and losses. We also incur foreign currency exchange gains and losses on certain intercompany assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. We are currently utilizing 30-day forward contracts to mitigate our exposure on these currency fluctuations. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of the forward contracts is offset by the change in the value of the hedged assets of our consolidated foreign affiliate. At March 31, 2018, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.4 million British pound sterling and to purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value, and at December 31, 2017, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.5 million British pound sterling and to purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.  



 Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



Not applicable.  



