Item 4. Controls and Procedures  



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  



Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules



 13a-15(e) and 



15d-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide a reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. 



Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of such date, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.  



Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  



There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 



13a-15(f) and 



15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during and as of the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  



Part I. OTHER INFORMATION     



Item 1. Legal Proceedings  



From time to time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints. We do not believe that there are claims or legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  



Item 1A. Risk Factors  



There are no material changes in our risk factors from those disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form



 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



(a)



 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities  



None.  



(b) 



Use of proceeds 



Not applicable.  



37 



Table of Contents  



(c)



Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers



The following table provides information about purchases by the Company during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:  



Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc. Purchases of Equity Securities  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1) 



The Company repurchased unvested restricted stock in accordance with either the Third Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Option and Incentive Plan, “2007 Award Plan” or the 2010 Inducement Plan. The price paid by the Company was determined pursuant to the terms of either the 2007 Award Plan or the 2010 Inducement Plan and related restricted stock agreements.   



 (2) 



The Company withheld 2,263 shares and 17,472 shares of vested restricted stock to satisfy the payment of taxes associated with the awards’ vesting in April and June, respectively.   



 (3) 



The Company purchased shares of common stock in accordance with its share repurchase program announced on May 3, 2018. The Company purchased the shares on the open market at prevailing prices.   



Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



Not applicable.  



Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  



Not applicable.  



Item 5. Other Information  



None.  



Item 6. Exhibits  



The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits are filed as part of this Quarterly Report on Form



 10-Q and such Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference. 



38 



Table of Contents 



EXHIBIT INDEX 



Listed and indexed below are all exhibits filed as part of this report. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 * 



Filed herewith.   



 ** 



Furnished herewith.   



39 



Table of Contents  



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



40
