 Item 2.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     



Overview 



Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. ("Vishay," "we," "us," or "our") is a global manufacturer and supplier of discrete semiconductors and passive components, including power MOSFETs, power integrated circuits, transistors, diodes, optoelectronic components, resistors, capacitors, and inductors. Discrete semiconductors and passive components manufactured by Vishay are used in virtually all types of electronic products, including those in the industrial, computing, automotive, consumer electronic products, telecommunications, power supplies, military/aerospace, and medical industries. 



We operate in five product segments: MOSFETs; Diodes; Optoelectronic Components; Resistors & Inductors; and Capacitors. 



Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions. Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the world's largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components. We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure. 



We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share. In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock. In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay. The quarterly cash dividend was increased by 26% to $0.085 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends. The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million pursuant to the stock repurchase plan that expired on June 1, 2018. No repurchases were made in 2018. In the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we issued $600 million convertible senior notes due 2025. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of these notes to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amount of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively. We recognized a loss of $17.3 million due to the early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible senior debentures. 



As part of the amendment and restatement of the revolving credit facility in December 2015, we completed an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, with consideration of the amount of cash that can be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions. As a result of that evaluation, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized income tax expense of $164.0 million, including U.S. federal and state income taxes, incremental foreign income taxes, and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions, on $300 million of foreign earnings which we had expected to repatriate to the U.S. over the next several years. We repatriated $38 million and $46 million to the U.S. pursuant to this plan in 2017 and 2016, respectively. 



As a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") in December 2017, we terminated the aforementioned cash repatriation plan and replaced it with a plan to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1.2 billion and accrued additional provisional tax expense. During the second fiscal quarter, we repatriated approximately $274.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million. Substantially all of these amounts were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. The provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the enactment of the TCJA included these amounts paid in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 



As permitted by Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 118, the net tax expense recorded in our financial statements due to the enactment of the TCJA for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, and adjusted in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 is considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates. We are continuing to collect and analyze detailed information that could impact this amount and may record further adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period defined in SAB No. 118, as additional analysis is completed. See further information in "U.S. Tax Reform: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act" below. 



Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by worldwide economic conditions. Our revenues are dependent on end markets that are impacted by consumer and industrial demand, and our operating results can be adversely affected by reduced demand in those global markets. For several years, we implemented aggressive cost reduction programs. We continue to monitor the current economic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets that we serve. Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs. In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, we substantially completed our cost reduction programs, which had been ongoing since 2013. Our cost reduction programs are more fully described in Note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1, and in "Cost Management" below. See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018. 



We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. See further discussion in "Financial Metrics" and "Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources" below. In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income. The amounts previously reported for these metrics have been recast. See additional information in Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. We experienced a continued high level of demand in virtually all end-markets in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. Net revenues increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter. The strong order levels of 2017 continued in the first six fiscal months of 2018 and resulted in continued strong metrics and an increase in nearly all key financial metrics compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter. 



38 



Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 were $761.0 million, compared to $716.8 million and $643.2 million for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 were $103.1 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, compared to $62.4 million, or $0.39 per share for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018, and $56.2 million, or $0.36 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2017. 



Net revenues for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 were $1,477.8 million, compared to $1,248.0 million for the six fiscal months ended July 1, 2017. The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 were $165.5 million, or $1.04 per diluted share, compared to $92.9 million, or $0.60 per diluted share for the six fiscal months ended July 1, 2017. 



We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business. We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment. The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash. These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results. Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. 



The items affecting comparability are (in thousands, except per share amounts): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter. 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Our results for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018, March 31, 2018, and July 1, 2017 and six fiscal months ending June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 represent the effects of a strong business environment and order activity, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives. We experienced a relatively sharp upturn in demand beginning in the first quarter of 2017 that has continued through first six fiscal months of 2018 and further improved results. Our percentage of euro-based sales approximates our percentage of euro-based expenses so the foreign currency impact on revenues was substantially offset by the impact on expenses. Our pre-tax results were consistent with expectations based on our business model. 



Our free cash results for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 were significantly impacted by the payment of cash taxes of $92.1 million related to the cash repatriated to the U.S. and the payment of the first $14.4 million installment of the U.S. transition tax in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 



39 



Financial Metrics 



We utilize several financial metrics to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business. These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio. We also monitor changes in inventory turnover and our or publicly available average selling prices ("ASP"). 



Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues. Gross profit is generally net revenues less costs of products sold, but also deducts certain other period costs, particularly losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs. Losses on purchase commitments and inventory write-downs have the impact of reducing gross profit margin in the period of the charge, but result in improved gross profit margins in subsequent periods by reducing costs of products sold as inventory is used. Gross profit margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 



Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues. We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin. Only dedicated, direct selling, general, and administrative expenses of the segments are included in the calculation of segment operating income. Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues. We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment. Operating margin is clearly a function of net revenues, but also reflects our cost management programs and our ability to contain fixed costs. 



End-of-period backlog is one indicator of future revenues. We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months. If demand falls below customers' forecasts, or if customers do not control their inventory effectively, they may cancel or reschedule the shipments that are included in our backlog, in many instances without the payment of any penalty. Therefore, the backlog is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods. 



An important indicator of demand in our industry is the book-to-bill ratio, which is the ratio of the amount of product ordered during a period as compared with the product that we ship during that period. A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods. Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues. 



We focus on our inventory turnover as a measure of how well we are managing our inventory. We define inventory turnover for a financial reporting period as our costs of products sold for the four fiscal quarters ending on the last day of the reporting period divided by our average inventory (computed using each fiscal quarter-end balance) for this same period. A higher level of inventory turnover reflects more efficient use of our capital. 



Pricing in our industry can be volatile. Using our and publicly available data, we analyze trends and changes in average selling prices to evaluate likely future pricing. The erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical for semiconductor products. We attempt to offset this deterioration with ongoing cost reduction activities and new product introductions. Our specialty passive components are more resistant to average selling price erosion. All pricing is subject to governing market conditions and is independently set by us. 



40 



The quarter-to-quarter trends in these financial metrics can also be an important indicator of the likely direction of our business. The following table shows net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, and changes in ASP for our business as a whole during the five fiscal quarters beginning with the second fiscal quarter of 2017 through the second fiscal quarter of 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



(1) Operating margin for the second, third, and fourth fiscal quarters of 2017 includes $0.5 million, $3.2 million, and $6.1 million, respectively, of restructuring and severance expenses (see Note 4 to our consolidated condensed financial statements). 



See "Financial Metrics by Segment" below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin broken out by segment. 



Revenues increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and second fiscal quarter of 2017. The continued strong demand further increased the backlog while the book-to-bill ratio remains high. Distributors continue to drive the high order rate. Many of our product lines are operating at or near capacity, but the high order rates have increased product delivery leadtimes and even caused some shortages of supply. We continue to raise critical capacities ambitiously while remaining careful in adding operational fixed costs. Sequentially, average selling prices increased, reflective of the strong business environment. 



Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the second fiscal quarter of 2017. The increases are primarily volume-driven. 



The book-to-bill ratio in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 remained strong at 1.17 versus 1.22 in the first fiscal quarter of 2018. The book-to-bill ratios in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 1.23 and 1.08, respectively, versus ratios of 1.28 and 1.16, respectively, during the first fiscal quarter of 2018. 



For the third fiscal quarter of 2018, we anticipate revenues between $755 million and $795 million and gross margins of 29% to 30% at the exchange rates of the second fiscal quarter. 



41 



Financial Metrics by Segment 



The following table shows net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, gross profit margin, and segment operating margin broken out by segment for the five fiscal quarters beginning with the second fiscal quarter of 2017 through the second fiscal quarter of 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASU 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 of the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



42 



U.S. Tax Reform: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 



On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA") was enacted in the United States. The TCJA represents sweeping changes in U.S. tax law. Among the numerous changes in tax law, the TCJA permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018; imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings; establishes a partial territorial tax system by allowing a 100% dividends received deduction on qualifying dividends paid by foreign subsidiaries; limits deductions for net interest expense; and expands the U.S. taxation of foreign earned income to include "global intangible low-taxed income" of foreign subsidiaries. 



Under U.S. GAAP (specifically, ASC Topic 740), the effects of changes in tax rates and laws on deferred tax balances are recognized in the period in which the new legislation is enacted. The total effect of tax law changes on deferred tax balances was recorded as a component of income tax expense in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. 



In response to the TCJA, the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ("SAB No. 118") to provide guidance to registrants in applying ASC Topic 740 in connection with the TCJA. SAB No. 118 provides that in the period of enactment, the income tax effects of the TCJA may be reported as a provisional amount based on a reasonable estimate (to the extent a reasonable estimate can be determined), which would be subject to adjustment during a "measurement period". The measurement period begins in the reporting period of the TCJA's enactment and ends when a registrant has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information that was needed in order to complete the accounting requirements under ASC Topic 740. SAB No. 118 also describes supplemental disclosures that should accompany the provisional amounts. 



The TCJA represents the first significant change in U.S. tax law in over 30 years. As permitted by SAB No. 118, the net tax expense recorded in our financial statements for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 due to the enactment of the TCJA is considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates. As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1.2 billion, and accrued additional provisional tax expense of $12 million. We are continuing to collect and analyze detailed information about the earnings and profits of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, the related taxes paid, the amounts which could be repatriated, the foreign taxes which may be incurred on repatriation, and the associated impact of these items under the TCJA. We may record additional adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period, as additional analysis is completed. Furthermore, we are continuing to evaluate the TCJA's provisions and may prospectively adjust our financial and capital structure and business practices accordingly. 



The provisional amount of net tax expense recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, as adjusted in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, that is directly and indirectly related to the TCJA is summarized as follows (amounts in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As a result of the TCJA, we recognized a provisional tax benefit of $74.8 million to remeasure our net deferred tax liabilities at the lower, 21% rate. 



The TCJA transitions the U.S. from a worldwide tax system to a partial territorial tax system. Under previous law, companies could indefinitely defer U.S. income taxation on unremitted foreign earnings. The TCJA imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings of 15.5% for liquid assets and 8% for illiquid assets, payable in defined increments over eight years. As a result of this requirement, we recognized provisional tax expense of $215.6 million, and provisionally expect to pay $180.0 million, net of estimated applicable foreign tax credits, and after utilization of net operating loss, R&D credit, and foreign tax credit carryforwards. We paid the first installment of $14.4 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. These previously deferred foreign earnings may now be repatriated to the United States without additional U.S. federal taxation. However, any such repatriation could incur withholding and other foreign taxes in the source and intervening foreign jurisdictions, and certain U.S. state taxes. 



Due to the changes in taxation of dividends received from foreign subsidiaries, and also because of the need to finance the payment of the transition tax, we made the determination during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 that certain unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France are no longer permanently reinvested, and recorded provisional tax expense of $213.0 million to accrue the incremental foreign income taxes and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions assuming the hypothetical repatriation to the United States of these approximately $1.1 billion of available foreign earnings. As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, the Company revised the amount available to be repatriated to the U.S. to approximately $1.2 billion and recorded additional provisional tax expense to accrue the incremental foreign income taxes and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions. During the second fiscal quarter, we repatriated approximately $274.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million. Substantially all of these repatriated amounts were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. 



43 



We expect to repatriate an additional approximately $450 million to the United States in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, net of withholding and foreign taxes of about $72 million. 



After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there will be approximately $300 million of unremitted foreign earnings that we have deemed not permanently reinvested and thus have accrued foreign withholding and other taxes. We expect to repatriate these remaining amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts. 



There are additional amounts of unremitted foreign earnings in other countries, which continue to be reinvested indefinitely, and we have made no provision for incremental foreign income taxes and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions related to these amounts. Determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred foreign tax liability for these amounts is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation. 



During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2015, we recognized income tax, including U.S. federal and state income taxes, incremental foreign income taxes, and withholding taxes payable to foreign jurisdictions, on $300 million of foreign earnings. This tax expense was recognized in 2015 following an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, and with consideration of the amount of cash that could be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions. We repatriated $38.0 million and $46.0 million pursuant to this program in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Prior to the enactment of the TCJA, the related deferred tax liability for the 2015 repatriation plan was $118.9 million. We have terminated the 2015 cash repatriation plan and recorded a provisional income tax benefit to reverse this deferred tax liability, which was replaced by the liability for the transition tax and foreign income and withholding taxes described above. 



The deferred tax liability related to these unremitted foreign earnings is based on the available sources of cash, applicable tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and other factors and circumstances, as of each balance sheet date. Changes in these underlying facts and circumstances result in changes in the deferred tax liability balance, which are recorded as tax benefit or expense. We recorded benefits of $9.0 million and $7.7 million for the second fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, for such remeasurements.



We expect to continue to generate a significant amount of cash and profits from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, and our provision for income taxes will continue to be based on various assertions regarding the future use of that cash and profits. Such assertions require us to consider a wide variety of U.S. federal and foreign tax laws, and the application of such laws to our operational and strategic needs. 



Our GAAP interest expense generally exceeds our U.S.-based operating income, resulting in pre-tax losses in the U.S. We have historically recorded U.S. federal tax benefits on these losses, at 35%, which had the effect of reducing our consolidated GAAP tax rate. Accordingly, the reduction in the statutory U.S. tax rate will generally increase our consolidated GAAP tax rate due to the lower tax benefits recognized on a GAAP basis. 



The TCJA expands the U.S. current taxation of foreign earned income beginning in 2018. Global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") is income of our non-U.S. subsidiaries that exceeds an allowable return and which will then be included in U.S. current taxable income, subject to certain adjustments, and possibly reduced by indirect foreign tax credits. We have elected to account for GILTI tax in the period in which it is incurred, and therefore have not provided any deferred tax impacts of GILTI in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. We expect to recognize a significant amount of GILTI income in 2018, and have included an estimate of such amounts in our provision for income taxes for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018. Because of the complexity of the new GILTI provisions, the rules around its implementation are not yet clear and as such, this estimate could change. The TCJA also imposes a base erosion and anti-abuse minimum tax ("BEAT"). BEAT could potentially increase our U.S. federal income tax by disallowing certain otherwise deductible payments from the U.S. to non-U.S. subsidiaries and imposing a minimum tax if greater than the regular tax. BEAT did not have a material impact on our provision for income taxes for the fiscal quarter or six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018. We are still evaluating the potential impacts of the new GILTI and BEAT tax rules. 



We historically derived significant cash tax savings from our convertible debentures. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interest deduction for the convertible debentures is computed based on the comparable yield of a hypothetical fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms and conditions but no conversion feature. Accordingly, annual interest deductions are calculated at 8.0%, 8.375%, and 7.5% of the adjusted issue price. The adjusted issue price, and consequently the interest deduction for income tax purposes, grows over the term of the debt due to the difference between the interest deduction using a comparable yield applied to the adjusted issue price, and the coupon rate of 2.25% on the principal amount. Interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP is calculated at the comparable yield multiplied by the carrying amount of the liability component of convertible debentures, which is substantially lower than the adjusted issue price for tax purposes. The difference between the tax and GAAP interest computations resulted in substantially greater interest deductions for tax purposes than GAAP interest expense. The TCJA limits deduction for net interest expense, which makes the convertible debentures less attractive financial instruments. We repurchased $220.0 million and $69.1 million of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. Our repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures reduced our expected full year 2018 tax rate, which in turn reduced the income tax expense recorded in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. While the remaining convertible debentures due 2040 and 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders, none of the convertible debentures are currently callable by us.  



The effects of the various TCJA provisions are all interrelated and the impact of any specific item on our effective tax rate is difficult to isolate. 



44 



Acquisition Activity 



As part of our growth strategy, we seek to expand through targeted acquisitions of other manufacturers of electronic components that have established positions in major markets, reputations for product quality and reliability, and product lines with which we have substantial marketing and technical expertise. This includes exploring opportunities to acquire targets to gain market share, penetrate different geographic markets, enhance new product development, round out our existing product lines, or grow our high margin niche market businesses. Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies. To limit our financial exposure, we have implemented a policy not to pursue acquisitions if our post-acquisition debt would exceed 2.5x our pro forma earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"). For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay's four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period. 



On February 8, 2018, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of UltraSource, Inc., a U.S.-based, privately-held thin film circuit and thin film interconnect manufacturer, for $13.6 million. The results and operations of this acquisition have been included in the Resistors & Inductors segment since February 8, 2018. UltraSource contributed $4.8 million and $7.5 million of net revenues to the second fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018. 



On June 11, 2018, we acquired EuroPower Holdings Ltd. ("EuroPower"), a distributor of electronic components in the United Kingdom for $2.9 million, subject to customary post-closing adjustments. The results and operations of this acquisition have been included in the Resistors & Inductors segment since June 11, 2018. EuroPower did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results for the fiscal quarter or six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018.  



There is no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire additional suitable acquisition candidates at price levels and on terms and conditions we consider acceptable. 



45 



Cost Management 



We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs, and use various measures and metrics to evaluate our cost structure. 



We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced. Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period. Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs. It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue. Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues. While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP. The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently. These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 



We closely monitor variable costs and seek to achieve the contributive margin in our business model. Over a period of many years, we have generally maintained a contributive margin of between 45% - 47% of revenues. The erosion of average selling prices, particularly of our semiconductor products, that is typical of our industry and inflation negatively impact contributive margin and drive us to continually seek ways to reduce our variable costs. Our variable cost reduction efforts include increasing the efficiency in our production facilities by expending capital for automation, reducing materials costs, materials substitution, increasing wafer size and shrinking dies to maximize efficiency in our semiconductor production processes, and other yield improvement activities. 



Our cost management strategy also includes a focus on controlling fixed costs recorded as costs of products sold or selling, general, and administrative expenses and maintaining our break-even point (adjusted for acquisitions). We seek to limit increases in selling, general, and administrative expenses to the rate of inflation, excluding foreign currency exchange effects and substantially independent of sales volume changes. At constant fixed costs, we would expect each $1 million increase in revenues to increase our operating income by approximately $450,000 to $470,000. Sudden changes in the business conditions, however, may not allow us to quickly adapt our manufacturing capacity and cost structure. 



Occasionally, our ongoing cost containment activities are not adequate and we must take actions to maintain our cost competitiveness. We incurred significant restructuring expenses in our past to reduce our cost structure. Historically, our primary cost reduction technique was through the transfer of production to the extent possible from high-labor-cost countries to lower-labor-cost countries. We believe that our manufacturing footprint is suitable to serve our customers and end markets, while maintaining lower manufacturing costs. Since 2013, our cost reduction programs have primarily focused on reducing fixed costs, including selling, general, and administrative expenses. 



In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013, we announced various cost reduction programs as part of our continuous efforts to improve efficiency and operating performance. The programs primarily focused on a plan to enhance the competitiveness of our MOSFETs segment and a voluntary separation / early retirement offer to certain employees Company-wide. These programs, including the extension of the MOSFET Enhanced Competitiveness Program, were substantially completed as of December 31, 2017. 



Programs were also initiated in 2015. The programs initiated in 2015 included a plan to reduce selling, general, and administrative costs company-wide, and targeted streamlining and consolidation of production for certain product lines within our Capacitors and Resistors & Inductors segments. The implementation of these programs did not impact planned R&D activities, or our growth initiatives in Asian markets. As of December 31, 2017, these programs were substantially implemented. 



We do not anticipate any material restructuring activities in 2018. We continue to monitor the economic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets that we serve. We also continue to closely monitor our costs and may be required to implement additional restructuring activities if we were to experience a significant economic downturn. 



Our long-term strategy includes growth through the integration of acquired businesses, and GAAP requires plant closure and employee termination costs that we incur in connection with our acquisition activities to be recorded as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, as such expenses are incurred. We have not incurred any material plant closure or employee termination costs related to any of the businesses acquired since 2011, but we expect to have some level of future restructuring expenses due to acquisitions. 



Even as we seek to manage our costs, we continue to pursue our growth plans through investing in capacities for strategic product lines, and through increasing our resources for R&D, technical marketing, and field application engineering; supplemented by opportunistic acquisitions of specialty businesses. 



46 



Foreign Currency Translation 



We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries. We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures. 



GAAP requires that we identify the "functional currency" of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency. A subsidiary's functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates. In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency. However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent company's operations generally would have the parent company's currency as its functional currency. We have both situations among our subsidiaries. 



Foreign Subsidiaries which use the Local Currency as the Functional Currency 



We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency. For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated condensed balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date. Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. 



For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. While the translation of revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency into U.S. dollars does not directly impact the statements of operations, the translation effectively increases or decreases the U.S. dollar equivalent of revenues generated and expenses incurred in those foreign currencies.  The dollar generally was weaker during the second fiscal quarter and first six fiscal months of 2018 compared to the prior year periods, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior year periods. The dollar generally was stronger during the second fiscal quarter compared to the prior quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars decreasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior quarter. 



Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency 



Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars. Exchange gains and losses arising from remeasurement of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in the results of operations. While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency.  The cost of products sold and selling, general, and administrative expense for the second fiscal quarter and first six fiscal months of 2018 have been unfavorably impacted (compared to the prior year periods) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency. The impact compared to the prior quarter was immaterial. 



47 



Results of Operations 



Statements of operations' captions as a percentage of net revenues and the effective tax rates were as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statement included in Item 1. 



Net Revenues 



Net revenues were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



**Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASU 2014-09. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the second fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods. 



Gross Profit and Margins 



Gross profit margins for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 were 29.9%, versus 28.6% and 27.0%, for the comparable prior quarter and prior year period, respectively. Gross profit margins for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 were 29.3%, versus 26.9% for the comparable prior year period. The increases are due primarily to increased sales volume. We were able to offset the negative impacts of inflation and an average selling price decline versus the six fiscal months ended July 1, 2017 by cost reductions and innovation, and maintain our contributive margin. 



48 



Segments 



Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below. 



MOSFETs 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the MOSFETs segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in MOSFETs segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



MOSFETs segment net revenues in the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior quarter and prior year periods. All regions and sales channels contributed to the significant increase versus the prior year quarter with distributors in the Americas and Europe experiencing above average growth.  



Gross profit margin increased versus the prior year periods due to the significant increases in net revenues, a more profitable product mix, and the impact of the cost reduction program, which were partially offset by cost inflation. Gross profit margin increased versus the prior quarter primarily due to the increase in net revenues, higher average selling prices, and the positive impact of an inventory increase. 



Due to the continuing positive business climate in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, the reduction in the pricing pressure from last year continued for our established MOSFETs products. Price increases for select products and ongoing price reductions for other products resulted in a net increase of average selling prices versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter and a slight decline versus the prior year-to-date period. 



We recently completed major cost reduction activities, which had been ongoing since 2013, to improve the operating results of the MOSFETs segment. See Note 4 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



We continue to make capital and R&D investments in this business. We will maintain our R&D and management presence in the Silicon Valley area, and in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 we moved into a new R&D facility in San Jose. We are in the process of increasing manufacturing volume at third-party foundries and maximizing the output of our internal fab to meet the increased demand. 



49 



Diodes 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the Diodes segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in Diodes segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Diodes segment achieved significant growth in net revenues in the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 versus the prior quarter and prior year periods. The increase versus the prior quarter was primarily due to volume growth, especially with distributors, and higher average selling prices. The increases versus the prior year periods were primarily due to volume growth, especially with distributors in the Americas and Europe regions, higher average selling prices, and positive impacts from a stronger euro. 



Gross profit margin increased versus the prior quarter and prior years periods primarily due to increased net revenues and higher average selling prices, partially offset by general cost inflation. 



The positive business climate mostly eliminated the pricing pressure for our established Diodes products. The net increases in average selling prices are primarily due to a more favorable customer mix. 



50 



Optoelectronic Components 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the Optoelectronic Components segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in Optoelectronic Components segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



In the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018, the Optoelectronic Components segment experienced moderate increases in net revenues versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter and a significant increase versus the prior year-to-date period. The increase versus the prior quarter was primarily due to increased volume, particularly distributors in Europe and the Americas. The increase versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to a stronger euro and higher average selling prices. Increased volume in Europe and Americas was offset by decreases in Asia. The increase versus the prior year-to-date period is primarily due to increased volume and a stronger euro. 



The gross profit margin decreased versus the prior quarter and prior year quarter. The gross profit margin was negatively impacted by a decrease in inventory. The gross profit margin increased versus the prior year-to-date period primarily due to increased net revenues, the currency impacts of a stronger euro, which impacted revenues more than expenses, and increased efficiencies, which were partially offset by lower average selling prices and cost inflation.  



The pricing pressure for our established Optoelectronic Components products has reduced versus prior years, but continues. Average selling prices were virtually stable versus the prior quarter and increased versus the prior year quarter. For the year-to-date period, there was a slight price reduction. 



51 



Resistors & Inductors 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the Resistors & Inductors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in Resistors & Inductors segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenues of the Resistors & Inductors segment increased significantly versus the prior year periods and moderately versus the prior quarter. All regions and almost all end markets contributed to the increase in net revenues. Distribution and the automotive and industrial end markets contributed the most to the revenue increase. The acquisition of UltraSource, Inc. in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 also contributed to the increase. See further information in "Acquisition Activity" above and Note 3 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



The gross profit margin improved versus the prior quarter and the prior year periods. The increases in gross profit margin are primarily due to cost reductions and volume efficiencies associated with increased net revenues, partially offset by increased metal prices and inflationary effects. 



Due to the continuing positive business climate in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter, were stable versus the prior year quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year-to-date period. 



Market demand currently exceeds our capacity for certain product lines. Capital spending projects to expand capacity are underway to meet the increased demand. 



52 



Capacitors 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the Capacitors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in Capacitors segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year periods and moderately versus the prior quarter. All regions contributed to the growth in net revenues. Europe was negatively impacted by foreign currency effects in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. Distribution and the industrial and automotive end markets were the main contributors to the sales growth. 



The gross profit margin decreased versus the prior quarter primarily due to a less favorable product mix, but increased versus the prior year periods. The increases versus the prior year periods are primarily due to cost reduction and volume efficiencies associated with the increased net revenues.  



Due to the continuing positive business climate in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and prior year periods. 



53 



Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 



Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



The overall increase in SG&A expenses is primarily attributable to general salary and cost inflation, incentive compensation, and exchange rate impacts, partially offset by the benefits of our restructuring programs (see "Cost Management" above). 



Certain items included in SG&A expenses impact the comparability of these amounts, as summarized below (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Certain intangible assets became fully amortized in the second fiscal quarter of 2017. 



54 



Other Income (Expense) 



Interest expense for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 increased $0.7 million and $1.3 million versus the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. Interest expense for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $2.2 million versus the six fiscal months ended July 1, 2017. The increases are primarily attributable to higher average outstanding balances and higher interest rates on our revolving credit facility in the fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018. In June 2018, we used cash repatriated from our non-U.S. subsidiaries to reduce the balance outstanding on our revolving credit facility. 



In June 2018, we issued $600 million principal amount of 2.25% senior convertible notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors. We used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, for $585.0 million. We recognized a $17.3 million loss on early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible debentures in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 



As a result of the convertible debt transactions and based on the June 30, 2018 balance of the revolving credit facility, we expect interest expense for the third fiscal quarter of 2018 to be approximately $11.0 million per quarter, of which $6.1 million will be payable in cash and the remainder will represent non-cash accretion and amortization of issuance costs. 



The following tables analyze the components of the line "Other" on the consolidated condensed statements of operations (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Recognized in "Other" subsequent to the prospective adoption of ASU 2016-01. Previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized. See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



55 



Income Taxes 



For the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018, our effective tax rate was (5.8)%, as compared to 32.0% and 25.5% for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. For the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018, our effective tax rate was 12.5%, as compared to 26.0% for the six fiscal months ended July 1, 2017. Historically, the effective tax rates were generally less than the pre-2018 U.S. statutory rate primarily because of earnings in foreign jurisdictions. With the reduction in the U.S. statutory rate to 21% beginning January 1, 2018, we expect that our effective tax rate will now be higher than the U.S. statutory rate, excluding unusual transactions. 



The effective tax rate for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2018 were significantly impacted by the effect of the TCJA (see "U.S. Tax Reform: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act" above). As permitted by SAB No. 118, the net tax expense recorded in our financial statements for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 due to the enactment of the TCJA is considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates. The net tax expense recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 was $234.9 million. We are continuing to collect and analyze detailed information that could impact this amount, and recorded an adjustment of $12.0 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 and may record additional adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period defined in SAB No. 118, as additional analysis is completed. 



The effective tax rate for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 was also significantly impacted by the effect of the repurchase of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 in the second fiscal quarter. We recognized a tax benefit of $34.0 million resulting from the extinguishments, reflecting the reduction in deferred tax liabilities related to the special tax attributes of the debentures. See Note 6 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1 for further information. 



During the second fiscal quarter and six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded additional tax benefit of $9.0 million and $7.7 million, respectively, due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program. These types of remeasurement adjustments will continue until the amounts are repatriated. We repatriated $274 million to the U.S. pursuant to this program in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. As a result of this repatriation, we paid cash taxes of $92.1 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 



We operate in a global environment with significant operations in various locations outside the United States. Accordingly, the consolidated income tax rate is a composite rate reflecting our earnings and the applicable tax rates in the various locations where we operate. Part of our historical strategy has been to achieve cost savings through the transfer and expansion of manufacturing operations to countries where we can take advantage of lower labor costs and available tax and other government-sponsored incentives. Accordingly, our effective tax rate has historically been less than the U.S. statutory rate, except in years where there are material discrete items. 



The TCJA significantly reduces the U.S. statutory tax rate, to a rate that is less than the applicable tax rates of many of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Furthermore, our GAAP interest expense generally exceeds our U.S.-based operating income, resulting in pre-tax losses in the U.S. We have historically recorded U.S. federal tax benefits, at 35%, which had the effect of reducing our consolidated GAAP tax rate. Accordingly, the reduction in the statutory U.S. tax rate generally has the effect of increasing our consolidated GAAP tax rate due to the lower tax benefits recognized on a GAAP basis. Our consolidated GAAP tax rate is negatively impacted by other provisions of the TCJA, including GILTI and the limitation on the deductibility of interest expense. The negative impact of limitations on the deductibility of interest expense was partially mitigated by the partial repurchase of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 



During the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits decreased by $0.3 million on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period and interest, offset by payments and foreign currency effects. 



Additional information about income taxes is included in Note 5 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1. 



56 



Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources 



We focus on our ability to generate cash flows from operations. The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock. We have generated cash flows from operations in excess of $200 million in each of the past 16 years, and cash flows from operations in excess of $100 million in each of the past 23 years. 



Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends. See "Overview" above for "free cash" definition and reconciliation to GAAP. Vishay has generated positive "free cash" in each of the past 21 years, and "free cash" in excess of $80 million in each of the past 16 years. In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls. 



We repatriated approximately $274 million to the United States during the second fiscal quarter and paid cash taxes of $92.1 related to this repatriation. The payment of these cash taxes was recorded as an operating cash flow and any future cash taxes associated with the TCJA transition tax and related foreign taxes on repatriated cash will generally be recorded as operating cash flows. The payment of these cash taxes significantly impacted cash flows from operations and free cash during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018. We expect our business to continue to be a reliable generator of free cash, partially offset by such tax payments. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to continue to generate cash flows from operations and free cash at the same levels, or at all, going forward if the current economic environment worsens. 



We maintain a revolving credit facility, first entered into in 2010, which was amended and restated on August 8, 2013, and further amended and restated on December 10, 2015. The credit facility provides an aggregate commitment of $640 million of revolving loans available until December 10, 2020, and we have the ability to request up to $50 million of incremental revolving commitments, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $96 million and $150 million, respectively, were outstanding under our credit facility. We utilized most of the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. 



The credit facility allows an unlimited amount of defined "Restricted Payments," which include cash dividends to stockholders and share repurchases, provided our pro forma leverage ratio is less than 2.25 to 1. If our leverage ratio is greater than 2.25 to 1, the credit facility allows such payments up to $75 million per annum (subject to a cap of $225 million for the term of the facility). The credit facility provides us with significantly more flexibility to execute these transactions, and our ability to utilize some of our foreign-source income for these types of transactions provides even further financial flexibility. 



Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin. The applicable interest margin is based on our leverage ratio. Based on our leverage ratio for the second fiscal quarter of 2018, borrowings bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%. The interest rate on our borrowings increases to LIBOR plus 1.75% if our leverage ratio is between 1.50 to 1 and 2.50 to 1 and increases to LIBOR plus 2.00% if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1. Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2018, new borrowings will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.75%. 



We also pay a fee, also based on our leverage ratio, on undrawn amounts. The undrawn commitment fee, based on our leverage ratio for the second fiscal quarter of 2018, was 0.30% per annum. Such undrawn commitment fee increases to 0.35% per annum if our leverage ratio is between 1.50 to 1 and 2.50 to 1 and increases to 0.40% per annum if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1. Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the second fiscal quarter of 2018, our undrawn commitment fee will be 0.35% per annum. 



The borrowings under the credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, machinery and equipment, and general intangibles (but excluding real estate, intellectual property registered or licensed for use in, or arising under the laws of, any country other than the United States, assets located outside of the United States and deposit and securities accounts), of Vishay and certain significant subsidiaries located in the United States, and pledges of stock in certain significant domestic and foreign subsidiaries; and are guaranteed by certain significant subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are permitted to borrow under the credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions. Any borrowings by these subsidiaries under the credit facility will be guaranteed by Vishay and certain subsidiaries. 



The credit facility also limits or restricts us, from, among other things, incurring indebtedness, incurring liens on assets, making investments and acquisitions, and making asset sales, and making other restricted payments (assuming our leverage ratio is greater than 2.25 to 1), and requires us to comply with other covenants, including the maintenance of specific financial ratios. 



57 



The financial maintenance covenants include (a) an interest expense coverage ratio of not less than 2.00 to 1; and (b) a leverage ratio of not more than 3.25 to 1 (and a pro forma ratio of 2.75 to 1 on the date of incurrence of additional debt). The computation of these ratios is prescribed in Article VI of the Credit Agreement between Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which has been filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K filed December 10, 2015. 



We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the credit facility at June 30, 2018. Our interest expense coverage ratio and leverage ratio were 16.02 to 1 and 1.76 to 1, respectively. We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections. 



If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and all amounts outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable. Additionally, our convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042 and our convertible notes due 2025 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated. 



The balance of our revolving credit facility was $150 million at December 31, 2017. We borrowed $296 million and repaid $350 million on our credit facility during the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018. The average outstanding balance on our credit facility calculated at fiscal month-ends was $238 million and the highest amount outstanding on our credit facility at a month end was $314 million during the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018. 



In June 2018, we issued $600 million principal amount of 2.25% senior convertible notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors. We used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, for $585.0 million. Prior to six months before the maturity date, our convertible notes are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances. The convertible notes are not convertible as of June 30, 2018 and will not be contingently convertible before the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018. 



Prior to three months before the maturity date, our convertible senior debentures are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances. The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the June 30, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the June 30, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods. Such debentures will remain convertible until September 29, 2018, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated. At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of our common stock. We intend to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under our credit facility. Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a noncurrent liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets. No conversions have occurred to date. The convertible debentures due 2041 are not currently convertible. 



As of June 30, 2018, $1,082.9 million of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were held in countries outside of the United States. 



The TCJA imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings of 15.5% for liquid assets and 8% for illiquid assets, payable in defined increments over eight years. As a result of this requirement, we provisionally expect to pay $180.0 million, net of estimated applicable foreign tax credits, and after utilization of net operating loss and R&D and FTC Credit carryforwards. Based on our U.S. cash position, we expect that we will be required to repatriate amounts from our non-U.S. subsidiaries to the United States to satisfy this tax obligation. 



These previously deferred foreign earnings may now be repatriated to the United States without additional U.S. federal taxation. However, any such repatriation could incur withholding and other foreign taxes in the source jurisdiction, and certain U.S. state taxes. Accordingly, our provisional tax expense for the impact of enactment of the TCJA included amounts for these incremental withholding and foreign taxes and certain U.S. state taxes. 



During the second fiscal quarter, we repatriated approximately $274.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million. Substantially all of these amounts were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness. 



We expect to repatriate an additional approximately $450 million to the United States in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, net of withholding and foreign taxes of about $72 million. 



After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there will be approximately $300 million of unremitted foreign earnings that we have deemed not permanently reinvested and thus have accrued foreign withholding and other taxes. We expect to repatriate these remaining amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.  



We are continuing to evaluate the future utilization of this repatriated cash. The U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., must fund cash dividends to stockholders (which were increased 26% in the second fiscal quarter of 2018), share repurchases, principal and interest payments on our debt instruments, and the TCJA transition tax. Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs. 



Upon repatriation of the additional amounts in the third fiscal quarter, management expects to further pay down the balance of the revolving credit facility. Management expects to use the credit facility from time-to-time to meet certain short-term financing needs. We expect that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, regular dividend payments, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans. Additional acquisition activity, share repurchases, or conversion of our convertible debentures may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt. No principal payments on our debt are due before the maturity of our revolving credit facility in December 2020. As described above, we plan to repatriate cash to the U.S. to satisfy the TCJA transition tax, which is payable in increments over eight years. 



58 



We are continuing to evaluate the TCJA's provisions and may prospectively adjust our financial and capital structure and business practices accordingly. 



We invest a portion of our excess cash in highly liquid, high-quality instruments with maturities greater than 90 days, but less than 1 year, which we classify as short-term investments on our consolidated balance sheets. As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt). 



The interest rates on our short-term investments vary by location, but can be up to 150 bps higher than the interest rates on our cash accounts. The average interest rate on our short-term investments was 1.2% due to the low interest rate environment in Europe. Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on our consolidated condensed statements of cash flows. 



The following table summarizes the components of net cash and short-term investments (debt) at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Represents the carrying amount of the convertible instruments, which is comprised of the principal amount of the instruments, net of the unamortized discount and the associated embedded derivative liability, when applicable. 



"Net cash and short-term investments (debt)" does not have a uniform definition and is not recognized in accordance with GAAP. This measure should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity. However, management believes that an analysis of "net cash and short-term investments (debt)" assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management. The measure, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 



Our financial condition as of June 30, 2018 continued to be strong, with a current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of 3.9 to 1, unchanged from December 31, 2017. The increases in cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and inventory were offset by decreases in short-term investments and prepaid and other current assets. Our ratio of total debt to Vishay stockholders' equity was 0.49 to 1 at June 30, 2018, as compared to 0.26 to 1 at December 31, 2017. The increase in the ratio is primarily due to increases in long-term debt after the issuance of the convertible notes due 2025. 



Cash flows provided by operating activities were $38.2 million for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to cash flows provided by operations of $128.3 million for the six fiscal months ended July 1, 2017. The decrease in operating cash flows reflects the payment of $92.1 million of cash taxes associated with repatriation activity and the first installment of the TCJA transition tax of $14.4 million. 



Cash paid for property and equipment for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 was $76.6 million, as compared to $49.1 million for the six fiscal months ended July 1, 2017. We expect capital spending of approximately $225 million in 2018. Some of this 2018 capital spending represents an acceleration of expected expansion from later years of our long-range plan. 



Cash paid for dividends to our common and Class B common stockholders totalled $22.0 million and $18.3 million for the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend. We expect dividend payments in 2018 to total approximately $46.5 million. However, any future dividend declaration and payment remains subject to authorization by our Board of Directors. 



On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock. The stock repurchase plan expired on June 1, 2018. We repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million pursuant to this plan. We did not repurchase any shares of stock in 2018. 



59 



Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 16, 2018, includes a table of contractual commitments. Except as described below, there were no material changes to these commitments during the six fiscal months ended June 30, 2018. 



The following tables represent our long-term debt obligations, expected cash requirements for interest, and expected cash requirements for payment of the TCJA transition tax as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, reflecting the issuance of $600 million principal amount of 2.25% senior convertible notes due 2025, the use of the net proceeds from the offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, the use of cash repatriated to the U.S. to reduce the outstanding balance of the revolving credit facility, and the $14.4 million first installment payment of the TCJA transition tax in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. 



Contractual Obligations as of June 30, 2018 (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2017 (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We do not participate in nor have we created any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing, other than the operating leases described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 



Dividends 



In 2014, our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program. Cash dividends of $0.0625 per share of common stock and Class B common stock were paid in the first three fiscal quarters of 2017. The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.0675 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017. The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.085 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the second fiscal quarter of 2018. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors. 



The following table summarizes the quarterly cash dividends declared (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



60 



Safe Harbor Statement 



From time to time, information provided by us, including but not limited to statements in this report, or other statements made by or on our behalf, may contain "forward-looking" information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "believe," "estimate," "will be," "will," "would," "expect," "anticipate," "plan," "project," "intend," "could," "should," or other similar words or expressions often identify forward-looking statements. 



Such statements are based on current expectations only, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, many of which are beyond our control. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, performance, or achievements may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated, or projected. Among the factors that could cause actual results to materially differ include: general business and economic conditions; delays or difficulties in implementing our cost reduction strategies; delays or difficulties in expanding our manufacturing capacities; an inability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; uncertainty related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; competition and technological changes in our industries; difficulties in new product development; difficulties in identifying suitable acquisition candidates, consummating a transaction on terms which we consider acceptable, and integration and performance of acquired businesses; changes in applicable domestic and foreign tax regulations and uncertainty regarding the same; changes in U.S. and foreign trade regulations and tariffs and uncertainty regarding the same; changes in applicable accounting standards and other factors affecting our operations, markets, capacity to meet demand, products, services, and prices that are set forth in our filings with the SEC, including our annual reports on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 



Our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K listed various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected and historic results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers can find them in Part I, Item 1A, of that filing under the heading "Risk Factors." You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider any such list to be a complete set of all potential risks or uncertainties. 



 Item 2.  Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds     



In June 2018, the Company issued $600 million principal amount of 2.25% senior convertible notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors. The Company used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, for $585.0 million. The notes that Vishay repurchased had been convertible for 23,333,207 shares of Vishay common stock, assuming physical settlement. 



Vishay offered and sold the convertible notes to the initial purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. The initial purchasers initially offered the convertible notes to "qualified institutional buyers" pursuant to an exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act. Vishay relied on this exemption from registration based in part on representations made by the initial purchasers. 



The convertible notes and common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. 



As a result of the obligations under the convertible notes upon conversion being payable in cash, shares of Vishay common stock, or a combination thereof, at the Company's option, as described in Note 6 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included Item 1, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes may constitute less than 1% of the number of shares of common stock outstanding. 



