Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



Disclosure About Foreign Currency Risk



Although the majority of our transactions are in U.S. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. We purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for product costs and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. Substantially all of the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. We do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1, Note 5, Fair Value Measurements and Investments and Note 6, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.



65

As of March 29, 2019, we had outstanding the foreign exchange contracts presented in the following table. The designated foreign exchange contracts are entered to protect the U.S. dollar value of our product cost and operating expenses. Changes in fair values of the non-designated foreign exchange contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net and are largely offset by corresponding changes in the fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Expressed in units of foreign currency per U.S. dollar.



During the nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.



Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign exchange risks, we do not hedge all of our foreign currency exposures, and there can be no assurance that our mitigating activities related to the exposures that we hedge will adequately protect us against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.



Disclosure About Other Market Risks



Variable Interest Rate Risk 



Borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our term loan A-1 due 2023 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin varying from 1.125% to 2.000% or a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.125% to 1.000%, in each case depending on our corporate credit ratings. As of March 29, 2019, the applicable margin based on our current credit ratings was 1.5%. Borrowings under our U.S. Term Loan B-4 due 2023 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted LIBOR (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus a margin of 1.75% or a base rate plus a margin of 0.75%. 



We have generally held a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. At March 29, 2019, 68% of the par value of our debt was at variable rates. To balance the portfolio, we entered into pay-fixed interest rate swaps on $2.00 billion notional amount, which effectively converts a portion of our term loan to fixed rates through February 2023. As of March 29, 2019, we had $7.33 billion of variable rate debt. After giving effect to the $2.00 billion of interest rate swaps, we effectively had $5.33 billion of long-term debt subject to variations in interest rates and a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest would increase annual interest expense by $53 million.



For additional information regarding our indebtedness, see Part I, Item 1, Note 7, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part II, Item 8, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended June 29, 2018.



66

