 Item 1. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets  



 (Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  



 2  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    See Note 5 for details on prior period amounts adjusted for the full retrospective adoption of ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.  



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  



 3  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  



 4  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  



 5  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.  



 6  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  



 March 31, 2018  



 (Amounts in tables in thousands, except share and per share amounts)  



 1. Basis of Presentation:  



 The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”), have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, the financial statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete audited financial statements.  



 The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, evaluation of performance obligations and allocation of revenue to distinct items, contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its estimates on its historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. The Company’s actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2017.  



 Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5. All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606, as indicated by the “as adjusted” footnote.  



 Reclassifications  



 Certain reclassifications and immaterial revisions have been made to the prior period financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation.  



 Earnings per share two class method   



 Earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were recalculated and restated using the two class method and presented on a comparable basis with the same periods in 2018. In 2017 the Company determined it should be reporting earnings per share using the two-class method in accordance with ASC 260-10-45-60, which treats unvested restricted shares granted under our 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan that are entitled to receive non-forfeitable dividends as participating securities. While the Company has determined the impact of applying the two-class method does not have a material impact on previously issued financial statements, it is appropriate to recalculate and restate amounts presented on a comparative and consistent basis with current period results. The table below summarizes previously reported and restated amounts on a comparative basis. Footnote 9, Earnings Per Share provides more detail on the two-class method calculation.  



 7  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 2. Recently issued accounting standards:  



 In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, superseding the previous revenue recognition requirements, along with most existing industry-specific guidance. In March, April, May and December 2016, the FASB issued additional updates to the new accounting standard which provide supplemental adoption guidance and clarifications. The guidance requires an entity to review contracts in five steps: 1) identify the contract, 2) identify performance obligations, 3) determine the transaction price, 4) allocate the transaction price, and 5) recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue arising from contracts with customers. The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2018, using the full retrospective method which required us to restate our historical financial information to reflect the adoption as of the earliest reporting period presented. The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software and software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services. See Footnote 5 (Revenue Recognition).   



 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.   



 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No. 2016-13"). ASU No. 2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU No. 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.   



 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows. The new standard is effective 



 8  



for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  



 In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.” This amendment is intended to improve accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. In accordance with this guidance, an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The ASU is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted in fiscal 2018 with modified retrospective application. The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.  



 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”. The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.  



  In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.  



 In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, “Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2018-02”), which permits the reclassification of stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA” or “U.S. tax reform”) from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to Retained earnings. This new guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted and must be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to periods in which the effects of the TCJA are recognized. The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.  



 3. Foreign Currency Translation:  



 Assets and liabilities of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries have been translated using the end of the reporting period exchange rates, and related revenues and expenses have been translated at average rates of exchange in effect during the period. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded as income or expenses as amounts are settled.   



 The net sales from our foreign operations for the first quarter of 2018 were $5.4 million as compared to $4.8 million in the first quarter of 2017.   



 4. Comprehensive Income:  



 Cumulative translation adjustments have been classified within accumulated other comprehensive loss, which is a separate component of stockholders’ equity in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income.”  



 5. Revenue Recognition:  



 Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method, which requires us to restate our historical financial information to reflect the adoption as of the earliest reporting period presented. There was no adjustment to equity as a result of the adoption. The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software and software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services. Historically, under the transfer of risk and rewards model of revenue recognition, the Company has accounted for primarily all of its sales on a gross basis. The new guidance requires the Company to identify performance obligations and assess transfer of control. 



 9  



While assessing its performance obligations for sales of security software and software subscriptions that are highly interdependent with support, the Company determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligations with the end customer that are not separately identifiable from the software itself. The Company also determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligation for sales of certain third-party maintenance, support and service contracts. In these instances, the Company has determined that it does not have control and is acting as an agent in the sale. When acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company accounts for sales on a net basis, with the vendor cost associated with the sale recognized as a reduction of revenue.   



 ASC 606 Adoption Impact to Previously Reported Results  



 The tables below present historical information adjusted as if the standard had been adopted on January 1, 2017 for all periods presented.   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The core principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This principle is achieved through applying the following five-step approach:  



 Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii) the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration. We apply judgment in determining the customer’s ability and intention to pay, which is based on a variety of factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, published credit and financial information pertaining to the customer. The Company considers customer purchase orders, which in some cases are governed by master agreements or general terms and conditions of sale, to be contracts with customers. All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.   



 Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services that will be transferred to the customer that are capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the goods or services is 



 10  



separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met the promised goods or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.  



 Determination of the transaction price —The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer. Net sales are recorded net of estimated discounts, rebates, and returns. Vendor rebates and price protection are recorded when earned as a reduction to cost of sales or merchandise inventory, as applicable. Cooperative reimbursements from vendors, which are earned and available, are recorded in the period the related advertising expenditure is incurred. Cooperative reimbursements are recorded as a reduction of cost of sales.  



 Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, basis. We determine standalone SSP based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through established standard prices, we use judgement and estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market pricing and pricing related to similar products. Contracts with a significant financing component are discounted to their present value at contract inception and accreted up to the expected payment amounts. These contracts generally offer customers extended payment terms of up to three years.  



 Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation — The Company recognizes revenue when its performance obligations are complete, and control of the specified goods or services pass to the customer. The Company considers the following indicators in determining when control passes to the customer: (i) the Company has a right to payment for the product or service (ii) the customer has legal title to the product, (iii) the Company has transferred physical possession of the product (iv) the Customer has the significant risk and rewards of ownership of the product and (v) the customer has accepted the product. Substantially all our performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time, as our obligation is to deliver a product or fulfill an order for a third party to deliver ongoing services, maintenance or support.  



 Disaggregation of Revenue  



 We generate revenue from the re-sale of third party software licenses, subscriptions, hardware, and related service contracts. Finance fees related to sales are classified as interest income. The following table depicts the disaggregation of revenue according to revenue type and is consistent with how we evaluate our financial performance:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Hardware and software product - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties. Hardware product is delivered from our warehouse or drop shipped directly from the vendor. Revenue from our hardware products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of title and risk of loss to the customer, as the Company is acting a principal in the transaction.  



  Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support. Software licenses are delivered via electronic license keys provided by the vendor to the end user. Revenue from the sale of software products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to our customers as the Company is a principal in the transaction. Control is deemed to have passed to the customer when they acquire the right to use or copy the software under license as substantially all product functionality is available to the customer at the time of sale.  



 11  



 Software maintenance and support, commonly known as software assurance or post contract support, consists of software updates and technical support provided by the software vendor to the licensor over a period of time. In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation. In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license. We utilize judgement in determining whether the maintenance is distinct from the software itself. This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality. See Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract for a discussion of the allocation of maintenance and support costs when they are distinct from the related software licenses and Software - security and highly interdependent with support for a discussion of maintenance and support costs when they are not distinct from the related software license.  



 Software - security and highly interdependent with support - Software - security software and software highly interdependent with support consists of sales of security subscriptions and other licensed software products whose functionality is highly interdependent with, and therefore not distinct from, related software maintenance. Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products. The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.  



 Maintenance, support and other services revenue - Maintenance, support and other services revenue consists of third-party post-contract support that is not critical or essential to the core functionality of the related licensed software, and, to a lesser extent, from third-party professional services, software as a service, and cloud subscriptions. Revenue from maintenance, support and other service revenues is recognized on a net basis, upon fulfillment of an order to the customer, as the Company is an agent in the transaction, and its performance obligations are complete at the time a valid order between the parties is processed.  



 Costs to obtain and fulfill a contract - We pay commissions and related payroll taxes to sales personnel when customers are invoiced. These costs are recorded as selling general and administrative expenses in the period earned as all of our performance obligations are complete within a short window of processing the order.   



 Contract balances - Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and returns. A receivable is recognized in the period we deliver goods or provide services or when our right to consideration is unconditional. Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30-75 days. The balance of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts and returns, as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 is presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets. Accounts receivable-long-term result from product sales with extended payment terms that are discounted to their present values at the Company’s estimates of prevailing market rates at the time of the sale. The Company has determined that these amounts do not represent variable consideration as the amount earned is fixed. In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable are increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years. The amounts due under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable and are shown net of reserves. As our revenues are generally recognized at a point in time in the same period as they are billed, we have no deferred revenue balances. Provisions for doubtful accounts including long-term accounts receivable and returns are estimated based on historical write offs, sales returns and credit memo analysis which are adjusted to actual on a periodic basis.  



 Principal versus agent considerations – The Company determines whether it is acting as a principal or agent in a transaction by assessing whether it controls a good or service prior to it being transferred to a customer, with control being defined as having the ability to direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the asset. The Company considers the following indicators, among others, in making the determination: 1) the Company is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the promised good or service, 2) the Company has inventory risk, before or after the specified good or service has been transferred to the customer, 3) the Company has discretion in establishing price for the specified good or service. Generally, we conclude that we are a principal in transactions where software or hardware products containing their core functionality are delivered to the customer at the time of sale and are agents in transactions where we are arranging for the provision of future performance obligations by a third party. As we enter into distribution agreements with third-party service providers, we evaluate whether we are acting as a principal or agent for each product sold under 



 12  



the agreement based on the nature of the product or service, and our performance obligations. Products for which there are significant ongoing third-party performance obligations include software maintenance, which includes periodic software updates and support, security software that is highly interdependent with maintenance, software as a service, cloud and third party professional services. Sales of hardware and software products where we are a principal are recorded on a gross basis with the selling price to the customer recorded as sales and the cost of the product or software recorded as cost of sales. Sales where we are acting as an agent are recognized on a net basis at the date our performance obligations are complete. Under net revenue recognition, the cost paid to the vendor or third-party service provider is recorded as a reduction to sales, resulting in revenue being equal to the gross profit on the transaction.   



 6.  Fair Value:  



 The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated fair value at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 because of the relative short maturity of these instruments. The Company’s accounts receivable long-term is discounted to their present value at estimated prevailing market rates at the date of sale so the balances approximate fair value.  



 7.  Balance Sheet Detail:  



 Equipment and leasehold improvements consist of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded depreciation and amortization expense of $0.1 million and $0.1 million respectively, which is included in general and administrative expense.  



 Accounts receivable – long term, net consist of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 8.  Credit Facility:  



 On November 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $20,000,000 revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Citibank, N.A. (“Citibank”) pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Note (the “Note”), Second Amended and Restated Security Agreement (the “Security Agreement”) and Second Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”). The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding 



 13  



loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any, fees, costs and expenses. In addition, the Company will pay regular monthly payments of all accrued and unpaid interest. The interest rate for any borrowings under the Credit Facility is subject to change from time to time based on the changes in the LIBOR Rate, as defined in the Loan Agreement (the “Index”). The Index was 1.88% at March 31, 2018. Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Note will be calculated using a rate of 1.50 percentage points over the Index. If the Index becomes unavailable during the term of the Credit Facility, interest will be based upon the Prime Rate (as defined in the Loan Agreement) after notifying the Company. The Credit Facility is secured by the assets of the Company.  



 Among other affirmative covenants set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Company must maintain (i) a minimum Debt Service Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of not less than 2.0 to 1.0, (ii) a maximum Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of at least 2.5 to 1.0, and (iii) a minimum Collateral Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of not less than 1.5 to 1.0. Additionally, the Loan Agreement contains negative covenants prohibiting, among other things, the creation of certain liens, the alteration of the nature or character of the Company’s business, and transactions with the Company’s shareholders, directors, officers, subsidiaries and/or affiliates other than with respect to (i) the repurchase of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company from the stockholders of the Company or (ii) the declaration and payment of dividends to the stockholders of the Company.  



 At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility.   



 9.  Earnings Per Share:  



 Our basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the two-class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation that determines net income per share for each class of common stock and participating securities according to their participation rights in dividends and undistributed earnings or losses. Non-vested restricted stock awards that include non-forfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities. Per share amounts are computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average shares outstanding during each period. Diluted and basic earnings per share are the same because the restricted shares are the only potentially dilutive security.  



 A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted per share computations follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 10.  Major Customers and Vendors:  



 The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 31.7% and 14.7%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2018. The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 30.8% and 13.4%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2017. The Company had two major customers that accounted for 25.9% and 18.2%, respectively, of its net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018. These 



 14  



same customers accounted for 34.6% and 13.5% respectively, of total net accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018. The Company had two major customers that accounted for 20.4% and 19.1%, respectively, of its net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2017.  



 11.  Income Tax:  



 The Company has analyzed filing positions in all of the federal and state jurisdictions where it is required to file income tax returns, as well as all open tax years in these jurisdictions. The Company has recorded an accrual of $0.4 million, net of federal tax benefit, for potential liabilities for state income taxes in states which have enacted economic nexus statutes and the Company has not filed income tax returns. The Company’s policy is to recognize interest related to unrecognized tax benefits as interest expense and penalties as operating expenses. The Company believes that it has appropriate support for the income tax positions it takes and expects to take on its tax returns, and that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open years based on an assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law applied to the facts of each matter.  



 The TCJA was enacted on December 22, 2017 and introduced significant changes to the U.S. income tax law. Effective in 2018, the TCJA reduces U.S. statutory tax rates from 34% to 21%. Accordingly, we remeasured our deferred taxes as of December 31, 2017 to reflect the reduced rate that will apply in future periods when these deferred taxes are settled or realized.  



 Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJA we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of March 31, 2018. As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the TCJA and any additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA will be completed in 2018.  



 The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was 23.4%, compared to 32.0% for the same period last year. The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the change in the federal tax rate due to the TCJA which reduced the statutory rate from 34% to 21%.   



 12.  Stockholders’ Equity and Stock Based Compensation:  



 The 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan (the “2012 Plan”) authorizes the grant of Stock Options, Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock, Stock Bonuses and other equity-based awards. The total number of shares of Common Stock initially available for award under the 2012 Plan was 600,000. As of March 31, 2018, the number of shares of Common stock available for future award grants to employees, officers and directors under the 2012 Plan is 185,346.  



 During 2017, the Company granted a total of 87,076 shares of Restricted Stock to officers and employees. These shares of Restricted Stock vest between twelve and twenty equal quarterly installments. In 2017, a total of 22,694 shares of Restricted Stock were forfeited as a result of officers and employees terminating employment with the Company.  



 During 2018, the Company granted a total of 60,500 shares of Restricted Stock to officers and employees. These shares of Restricted Stock vest between sixteen and twenty equal quarterly installments.   



 A summary of nonvested shares of Restricted Stock awards outstanding under the Company’s the 2012 Plan as of March 31, 2018, and changes during the three months then ended is as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 15  



 As of March 31, 2018, there is approximately $3.1 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements. The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.8 years.  



 For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized share-based compensation cost of $0.3 million and $0.3 million respectively, which is included in the Company’s general and administrative expense.  



 13.  Segment Information:  



 FASB ASC Topic 280, “Segment Reporting,” requires that public companies report profits and losses and certain other information on their “reportable operating segments” in their annual and interim financial statements. The internal organization used by the public company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to assess performance and allocate resources determines the basis for reportable operating segments. The Company’s CODM is the Chief Executive Officer.  



 The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments. The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide. The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the United States and Canada.  



 As permitted by FASB ASC Topic 280, the Company has utilized the aggregation criteria in combining its operations in Canada with the domestic segments as the Canadian operations provide the same products and services to similar clients and are considered together when the Company’s CODM decides how to allocate resources.  



 Segment income is based on segment revenue less the respective segment’s cost of revenues as well as segment direct costs (including such items as payroll costs and payroll related costs, such as profit sharing, incentive awards and insurance) and excluding general and administrative expenses not attributed to an individual segment business unit. The Company only identifies accounts receivable and inventory by segment as shown below as “Selected Assets” by segment; it does not allocate its other assets, including capital expenditures by segment.  



 The following segment reporting information of the Company is provided:   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 16  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



