 PART II - OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 2. - Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The table below sets forth the repurchase of Common Stock by the Company and its affiliated purchasers during the   



 second quarter of 2018.  



 31  



 Table of Contents  



 ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    Includes 61,416 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock. These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below. 



   (2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable. 



   (3)    Average price paid per share reflects the price of the Company’s Common Stock purchased on the open market. 



   (4)    On December 3, 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans. On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans. The Company expects to purchase shares of its Common Stock from time to time in the market or otherwise subject to market conditions.  



 The Common Stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.  



 Item 6. Exhibits  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 32  



 Table of Contents  



   101    The following financial information from Wayside Technology Group, Inc.’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, filed with the SEC on August 9, 2018, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) includes: (1) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (2) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings, (3) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, (4) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (5) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (6) the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.    



 33  



 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 34
