 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  



 The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of risk and uncertainties, including those set forth under the heading “Forward Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this report and those set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2018. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  



 Overview  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. (the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us”) distributes software and hardware developed by others through resellers indirectly to customers worldwide. We also resell computer software and hardware developed by others to customers in the United States and Canada. In addition, we operate a sales branch in Europe to serve our customers in this region of the world. We offer an extensive line of products from leading publishers of software and tools for virtualization/cloud computing, security, networking, storage and infrastructure management, application lifecycle management and other technically sophisticated domains as well as computer hardware. We market these products through creative marketing communications, including our web sites, local and on-line seminars, webinars, social media, direct e-mail, and printed materials.  



 The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments. The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide. The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.  



 Factors Influencing Our Financial Results  



 We derive the majority of our net sales though the sale of third party software licenses, maintenance and service agreements. In our Lifeboat distribution segment, sales are impacted by the number of product lines we distribute, and sales penetration of those products into the reseller channel. In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers. Our sales are also impacted by external factors such as levels of IT spending and customer demand for products we distribute.  



 We sell in a competitive environment where gross product margins have historically declined due to competition and changes in product mix towards products where no delivery of a physical product is required. To date, we have been able to implement cost efficiencies such as the use of drop shipments, electronic ordering (“EDI”) and other capabilities to be able to operate our business profitably as gross margins have declined.   



 Selling general and administrative expenses are comprised mainly of employee salaries, commissions and other employee related expenses, facility costs, costs to maintain our IT infrastructure, public company compliance costs and professional fees. We monitor our level of accounts payable, inventory turnover and accounts receivable turnover which are measures of how efficiently we utilize capital in our business.  



 The Company’s sales, gross profit and results of operations have fluctuated and are expected to continue to fluctuate on a quarterly basis as a result of a number of factors, including but not limited to: the condition of the software industry in general, shifts in demand for software products, pricing, level of extended payment terms sales transactions, industry shipments of new software products or upgrades, fluctuations in merchandise returns, adverse weather conditions that affect response, distribution or shipping, shifts in the timing of holidays and changes in the Company’s product offerings. The Company’s operating expenditures are based on sales forecasts. If sales do not meet expectations in any given quarter, operating results may be materially adversely affected.  



 Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program. Historically we have sought to return value to investors through the payment of quarterly dividends and share repurchases. Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and $0.02 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the quarter 



 20  



 Table of Contents  



ended September 30, 2017, respectively. The payment of future dividends and share repurchases is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and dependent on results of operations, projected capital requirements and other factors the Board of Directors may find relevant.  



 Stock Volatility. The technology sector of the United States stock markets is subject to substantial volatility. Numerous conditions which impact the technology sector or the stock market in general or the Company in particular, whether or not such events relate to or reflect upon the Company’s operating performance, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Furthermore, fluctuations in the Company’s operating results, announcements regarding litigation, the loss of a significant vendor or customer, increased competition, reduced vendor incentives and trade credit, higher operating expenses, and other developments, could have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock.  



 We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on retrospective basis effective January 1, 2018. Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales. We refer to these items as being recorded on a “net basis” in the discussion below. Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.  



 Forward Looking Statements  



 This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Statements in this report regarding future events or conditions, including but not limited to statements regarding industry prospects and the Company’s expected financial position, results of operations, business and financing plans, are forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” and “continue,” or similar words.  



 Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Substantial risks and uncertainties unknown at this time could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the continued acceptance of the Company’s distribution channel by vendors and customers, the timely availability and acceptance of new products, product mix, market conditions, competitive pricing pressures, contribution of key vendor relationships and support programs, including vendor rebates and discounts, as well as factors that affect the software industry in general and other factors generally. We strongly urge current and prospective investors to carefully consider the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in this report and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 15, 2018.  



 The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict every risk factor, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.  



 Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  



 The statements concerning future sales, future gross profit margin and future selling and administrative expenses are forward looking statements involving certain risks and uncertainties such as availability of products, product mix, pricing pressures, market conditions and other factors, which could result in a fluctuation of sales below recent experience.  



 Financial Overview  



 Net sales increased 23%, or $8.9 million, to $47.9 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, compared to $39.0 million for the same period in 2017. Gross profit was $6.3 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, compared to $6.2 million in the prior year. Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased 10%, or $0.4 million, to $4.9 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, compared to $4.5 million for the same period last year. 



 21  



 Table of Contents  



The Company reported net income of $1.3 million for each of the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017. Diluted income per share for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 was $0.29, compared to diluted income per share of $0.30 for the same period in 2017.   



 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



 Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with US GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  



 On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.  



 The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  



 The Company believes the following critical accounting policies used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements affect its more significant judgments and estimates.  



 Revenue  



 The Company adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with customers using the full retrospective method effective January 1, 2018. See Note 5 to the accompanying financial statements for further information. The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations. These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download. We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.  



 Allowance for Accounts Receivable  



 The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Management determines the estimate of the allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable by considering a number of factors, including: historical experience, aging of the accounts receivable, and specific information obtained by the Company on the financial condition and the current creditworthiness of its customers. If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. At the time of sale, we record an estimate for sales returns based on historical experience. If actual sales returns are greater than estimated by management, additional expense may be incurred.  



 Accounts Receivable – Long Term  



 The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale based on prevailing rates. In doing so, the Company considers competitive market rates and other factors. At times the Company sells receivables to a financial institution on a non-recourse basis. The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.  



 Inventory Allowances  



 The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.  



 22  



 Table of Contents  



 Income Taxes  



 The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets. In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.  



 Share-Based Payments  



 Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. We record the impact of forfeitures when they occur. We review our valuation assumptions periodically and, as a result, we may change our valuation assumptions used to value stock-based awards granted in future periods. Such changes may lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in connection with share-based payments.  



 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, superseding the previous revenue recognition requirements for contracts, along with most existing industry-specific guidance. In March, April, May and December 2016, the FASB issued additional updates to the new accounting standard which provide supplemental adoption guidance and clarifications. The guidance requires an entity to review contracts in five steps: 1) identify the contract, 2) identify performance obligations, 3) determine the transaction price, 4) allocate the transaction price, and 5) recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue arising from contracts with customers. The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2018, using the full retrospective method which required us to restate our historical financial information to reflect the adoption as of the earliest reporting period presented. The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software or software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support or other services. See Footnote 5 (Revenue Recognition).   



 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements. It is expected that assets and liabilities will increase as a result of the adoption of this standard.  



 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No. 2016-13"). ASU No. 2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU No. 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition for accounts receivable.   



 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  



 In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.” This amendment is intended to improve accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. In accordance with this guidance, an entity should recognize the income tax 



 23  



 Table of Contents  



consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The ASU is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted in fiscal 2018 with modified retrospective application. The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.  



 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”. The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.  



 In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.  



 In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, “Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2018-02”), which permits the reclassification of stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA” or “U.S. tax reform”) from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to Retained earnings. This new guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted and must be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to periods in which the effects of the TCJA are recognized. The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.  



 In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SEC Update), Income Taxes (Topic 740). ASU 2018-05 provides guidance regarding the recording of tax impacts where uncertainty exists, in the period of adoption of the 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Tax Act”), which allowed companies to reflect provisional amounts for those specific income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act for which the accounting under ASC Topic 740 is incomplete but for which a reasonable estimate could be determined. The Company completed its Federal and State income tax filings for 2017 with no material change to amounts previously reported.   



 In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting,” which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions. It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50. The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718. The guidance also allows nonpublic entities to account for nonemployee awards using certain practical expedients that are already available for employee awards, but the same accounting policies must be used for awards to both employees and nonemployees. ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance.  



 In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements, which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification. The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard. A majority of the amendments in ASU 2018-09 will be effective in annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. We will be required to adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. This standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.  



 24  



 Table of Contents  



 Results of Operations  



 The following table sets forth for the periods indicated certain financial information derived from the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income expressed as a percentage of net sales. This comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of future results:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Non-GAAP Financial Measures  



 Our management monitors a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis in order to track the progress of our business. We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include net sales, gross margin, adjusted gross billings, gross profit as a percentage of gross billings, net income as a percentage of net sales, net income as a percentage of gross billings, and net income excluding separation expenses, net of taxes. We use a variety of operating and other information to evaluate the operating performance of our business, develop financial forecasts, make strategic decisions, and prepare and approve annual budgets. These key indicators include financial information that is prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and presented in our consolidated financial statements as well as non-GAAP performance measurement tools.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 25  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security or highly interdependent with support and maintenance, support or other services. We provided a reconciliation of adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. We use adjusted gross billings of product and services as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into the volume of business generated by our business, and to analyze the changes to our accounts receivable and accounts payable. Our use of adjusted gross billings of product and services as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider it in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 We use net income excluding separation payments as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into comparison of our businesses profitability when compared to the prior year. Our use of net income excluding separation expenses, net of tax has limitations, and you should not consider it in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate separation expenses net of tax, or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.  



 Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2017  



 Net Sales  



 Net sales for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased 23%, or $8.9 million, to $47.9 million, compared to $39.0 million for the same period in 2017. Adjusted gross billings for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased 26%, or $27.3 million, to $134.0 million, compared to $106.6 million for the same period in 2017.   



 Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased $9.4 million, or 27% to $44.1 million, compared to $34.7 million for the same period a year earlier. The increase was due primarily to growth in sales penetration for several of our more significant product lines, as well as the addition of several new product lines. The increases were partially offset by turnover in some vendor and customer accounts, including the termination of one of our vendor distribution agreements that accounted for less than 10% of net sales. While the tenure of our vendor relationships is generally for multiple years, the contractual terms of the distribution agreements themselves are short term in nature and vendors consolidate or change their relationships for various reasons. We operate in a competitive market in which vendor distribution and sales agreements are subject to turnover due to competitive bidding processes and other factors. Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment increased $21.8 million or 22% to $122.0 million for the quarter ended 



 26  



 Table of Contents  



September 30, 2018. Net sales increased at a higher rate than adjusted gross billings due to the impact of reporting certain products on a net basis.  



 TechXtend segment net sales decreased $0.5 million or 12% to $3.8 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, compared to $4.3 million for the prior year. Sales in our TechXtend segment may vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the timing of IT spending decisions by our larger customers and internal capital allocation decisions regarding capital we allocate to the extended payment program. Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment increased $5.5 million or 86% to $12.0 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018.   



 During the quarter ended September 30, 2018, we relied on two key customers for a total of 52.9% of our net sales. One of these customers accounted for 37.3% and the other for 15.6% of our total net sales during the three months ended September 30, 2018. These same customers accounted for 40.6% and 8.8% of total net accounts receivable as of September 30, 2018.  



 Gross Profit  



 Gross profit for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased slightly to $6.3 million, compared to $6.2 million for the same period in 2017. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit increased 4% or $0.2 million to $5.6 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 compared $5.4 million for the same period in 2017 due to the impact of the higher net sales discussed above, partially offset by lower gross profit margin. TechXtend segment gross profit decreased 20% to $0.7 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 compared to $0.8 million for the same period in the prior year due to the lower net sales discussed above.   



 Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 was 13.2% compared to 16.0% in 2017. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin was 12.8% for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, compared to 15.6% in 2017. TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 was 17.6%, compared to 19.2% in 2017. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily caused by lower gross profit margins as a percent of net sales for hardware and software product sales which are reported on a gross basis and a change in the percentage mix of our products which are recorded net of the related cost of sales. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 approximately 8.0% of our net sales was attributable to security, maintenance and third-party service products which are recorded on a net basis, or an effective 100% gross profit margin, compared to 8.9% in 2017. This shift in product mix had the effect of reducing gross profit as a percent of net sales by 100 basis points. The remainder of the decline was caused by lower gross profit margin on software and hardware products recorded on a gross basis, as growth in these products was primarily from high volume lines which are sold at lower gross profit margin than our average gross profit. We operate in a competitive environment where the trend has been and may continue to be for gross profit margins as a percentage of adjusted gross billings to decline.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  



 SG&A expenses for the quarter ended September 30, 2018 increased $0.4 million, or 10%, to $4.9 million when compared to $4.5 million for prior year. The increase is primarily due to higher business development and field sales personnel expenses, professional, and public company related costs. SG&A expenses were 10.2% of net sales for the quarter ended September 30, 2018, compared to 11.4% for the same period in 2017.   



 The Company expects that its SG&A expenses, as a percentage of net sales, may vary depending on changes in sales volume, as well as the levels of continuing investments in key growth initiatives. We plan to continue to expand our investment in information technology and marketing, while monitoring SG&A expenses closely.  



 Income Taxes  



 For the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.4 million, compared to $0.7 million for the same period in 2017. The effective tax rate for ordinary income was 24.2% for the three months ending September 30, 2018, compared to 33.3% during the same period in the prior year.   



 Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJA we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of September 30, 2018. As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the TCJA and any additional guidance issued by the Internal 



 27  



 Table of Contents  



Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA will be completed in 2018.  



 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017  



 Net Sales  



 Net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased 14%, or $16.2 million, to $132.4 million, compared to $116.1 million for the same period in 2017. Adjusted gross billings for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased 16%, or $53.2 million, to $375.6 million, compared to $322.4 million for the same period in 2017.   



 Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $15.4 million, or 15% to $119.3 million, compared to $103.9 million for the same period a year earlier. The increase was due primarily to growth in sales penetration for several of our more significant product lines, the addition of several new product lines, as well as product mix resulting in an increased percent of our sales being reported on a gross basis. The increases were partially offset by turnover in some vendor and customer accounts, including the termination of one of our vendor distribution agreements that accounted for less than 10% of net sales. While the tenure of our vendor relationships is generally for multiple years, the contractual terms of the distribution agreements themselves are short term in nature and vendors consolidate or change their relationships for various reasons. We operate in a competitive market in which vendor distribution and sales agreements are subject to turnover due to competitive bidding processes and other factors. Approximately 9.3% of our net sales were recorded on a net basis compared to 10.1% in the same period of the prior year. Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment increased $42.7 million or 14% to $343.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Adjusted gross billings increased at a lower rate than net sales due to the impact of recording sales for certain products net of the related cost of sales.  



 TechXtend segment net sales increased $0.8 million or 7% to $13.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to $12.3 million for the prior year. Sales in our TechXtend segment may vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the timing of IT spending decisions by our larger customers and internal capital allocation decisions regarding capital we allocate to the extended payment program. Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment increased $10.5 million or 48% to $32.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.   



 During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we relied on two key customers for a total of 44.0% of our net sales. One major customer accounted for 27.5% and the other for 16.5%, of our total net sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. These same customers accounted for 40.6% and 8.8% of total net accounts receivable as of September 30, 2018.  



 Gross Profit  



 Gross profit for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased slightly to $19.7 million, compared to $19.6 million for the same period in 2017. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit increased 1% or $0.2 million to $17.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared $16.9 million for the same period in 2017 due to higher net sales which were partially offset by the impact of lower gross margin as a percentage of net sales (discussed below). TechXtend segment gross profit decreased 4% to $2.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 compared to $2.7 million for the same period in the prior year due to the decreased net sales discussed above.   



 Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 14.9% compared to 16.9% in 2017. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin was 14.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 16.2% in 2017. TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 19.9%, compared to 22.1% in 2017. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily caused by lower gross profit margins on hardware and software products and a change in the percentage mix of our products which are recorded net of the related cost of sales. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 approximately 9.3% of our net sales was attributable to security, maintenance and third-party service products which are recorded on a net basis, or an effective 100% gross profit margin, compared to 10.1% in 2017. This shift in product mix had the effect of reducing gross profit as a percent of net sales by 80 basis points. The remainder of the decline was caused by lower gross profit margin on software and hardware products recorded on a gross basis, as growth in these products was primarily from high volume 



 28  



 Table of Contents  



lines which are sold at lower gross profit margin than our average gross profit. We operate in a competitive environment where the trend has been and may continue to be for gross profit margins as a percentage of adjusted gross billings to decline.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  



 SG&A expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $0.9 million, or 7%, to $15.2 million compared to $14.3 million for the prior year. The increase is primarily due to higher business development and field sales personnel expenses, professional, and public company related costs, accounting, legal and public company costs. SG&A expenses were 11.5% of net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 12.3% for the same period in 2017.   



 The Company expects that its SG&A expenses, as a percentage of net sales, may vary depending on changes in sales volume, as well as the levels of continuing investments in key growth initiatives. We plan to continue to expand our investment in information technology and marketing, while monitoring SG&A expenses closely.  



 Separation Expense  



 Separation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $2.4 million compared to no expense in the same period in 2017. The increase is due to $2.4 million in separation expenses related to the resignation of our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 11, 2018, consisting of a $1.7 million charge for accelerated vesting of restricted stock and $0.8 million in accrued payments to be made over the next twelve months.   



 Income Taxes  



 For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $1.0 million, compared to $1.9 million for the same period in 2017. The company’s effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was impacted by limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation resulting from section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, and adjustments to the accrual for state income taxes in states which have enacted economic nexus statutes. The Company recorded a $0.4 million tax benefit related to separation expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 which were accounted for as a discrete item, resulting in a 18% effective tax benefit rate on that expense. We also adjusted our provision for state income taxes in states with economic nexus statutes by $0.2. The effective tax rate for ordinary income was 24.2% for the nine months ending September 30, 2018, compared to 32.2% during the same period in the prior year.   



 Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJA we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of September 30, 2018. As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the TCJA and any additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA will be completed in 2018.  



 Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $1.0 million to $6.5 million at September 30, 2018 from $5.5 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in cash was primarily the result of $4.6 million in cash provided by operating activities offset by $3.3 million of cash used for dividends and stock repurchases.  



 Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $4.6 million, comprised primarily of net income adjusted for non-cash items of $4.8 million, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.2 million. Net cash provided by changes in working capital increased slightly as increases in accounts receivables were offset by lower inventory and utilization of vendor prepayments.  



 In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $0.2 million, compared to $0.3 million in the prior year.   



 29  



 Table of Contents  



 Net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $3.3 million was comprised of $2.3 million of dividend payments on our Common Stock, and $1.0 million for the stock repurchases.   



 On November 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $20,000 revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Citibank, N.A. (“Citibank”) pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Note (the “Note”), Second Amended and Restated Security Agreement (the “Security Agreement”) and Second Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”). The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any interest, fees, costs and expenses, if any. As of September 30, 2018, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.  



 We anticipate that our working capital needs will increase as we invest in the growth of our business. We believe that the funds held in cash and cash equivalents and our unused borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.  



 Contractual Obligations as of September 30, 2018 are summarized as follows:   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    Operating leases relate primarily to the leases of the space used for our operations in Eatontown, New Jersey, Mesa Arizona, Mississauga, Canada and Amsterdam, Netherlands. The commitments for operating leases include the minimum rent payments. 



 As of September 30, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under our lines of credit and no commitments relating to standby letters of credit, and has no standby repurchase obligations or other commercial commitments (see Note 8 in the Notes to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements).  



 Foreign Exchange  



 The Company’s foreign subsidiaries are subject to changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates or other factors. We are subject to fluctuations primarily in the Canadian Dollar and the Euro Dollar to-U.S. Dollar exchange rate.  



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  



 As of September 30, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  



 Item 2. - Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The table below sets forth the repurchase of Common Stock by the Company and its affiliated purchasers during the   



 third quarter of 2018.  



 ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    Includes 1,888 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock. These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below. 



   (2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable. 



   (3)    Average price paid per share reflects the price of the Company’s Common Stock purchased on the open market. 



   (4)    On December 3, 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans. On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans. The Company expects to purchase shares of its Common Stock from time to time in the market or otherwise subject to market conditions.  



 The Common Stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.  



 32  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 6. Exhibits  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 33  



 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 34
