Item 2.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



The statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis that are forward-looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for any reason.



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our condensed consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; the assessment of impairment of long-lived assets, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; and valuation and recognition of stock-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development (R&D) expenses, and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. For more discussion please refer to "Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2018 filed with the SEC, and to "Note 2. Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I. "Financial Information." 



Due to the acquisition of Deephi Tech, we included business combinations as our critical accounting policy. We use the acquisition method of accounting and allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquiree based on their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of these assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets required and liabilities acquired, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, which includes consideration of future growth and margins, future changes in technology, expected cost and time to develop in-process research and development, brand awareness and discount rates. Fair value estimates are based on the assumptions management believes a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. 



We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting.



Results of Operations: second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 



The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated:



26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Revenues



We sell our products to global manufacturers of electronic products in various end markets. The vast majority of our net revenues is generated by sales of our semiconductor products, but we also generate sales from support products. We classify our product offerings into two categories: Advanced Products and Core Products:



•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the Alveo branded boards, UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families.



•Core Products consist of all other product families.



These product categories are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect the maturity of the products and advances in technology. The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally. 



No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019.



Net Revenues by Product



Net revenues by product categories for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the comparable prior year periods. The increases were a result of sales growth from all product families, with the most significant growth coming from our 16nm and 20nm product families. We expect sales of Advanced Products to continue to grow as more customer programs enter volume production with both our 16nm and our new Alveo branded boards products. 



Net revenues from Core Products decreased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The decreases were largely due to lower sales from our older Virtex product families. Core Products are relatively mature products and, as a result, their sales are expected to decline over time.



27

Net Revenues by End Markets



Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers’ primary markets, which is based on reports provided by distributors and our internal records. To provide additional visibility, starting April 1, 2018 we classify our end markets into businesses with similar market drivers: Data Center and Test, Measurement and Emulation (TME); Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer; Communications; and Industrial, Aerospace & Defense. Additionally, we classify revenue recognized from shipments to distributors but not yet subsequently sold to the end markets as Channel revenue. The Channel revenue represents the difference between the shipments to distributors and what the distributors subsequently sold to the end customers within the given period. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year-to-year dollar change in each end market.



Net revenues by end markets for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net revenues from Data Center and TME increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from all sub-segments with particular strength coming from Data Center. 



Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Automotive and Audio, Video and Broadcast.



Net revenues from Communications increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Wireless. 



Net revenues from Industrial, Aerospace & Defense decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The decrease was driven by lower sales from Aerospace and Defense. Net revenues from Industrial, Aerospace & Defense increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The increase was driven by higher sales from each of the sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Industrial, Scientific and Medical.



Channel revenue was a positive amount in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019, because shipments to distributors exceeded what the distributors subsequently shipped to their customers during such periods. In the second half of fiscal 2018, we partnered with our distributors to reduce overall distributor inventory and improve the stability of inventory balances. In the next few quarters, we expect Channel revenue to be a positive amount as the distributors restock inventory to support growth and customer service objectives.



Net Revenues by Geography



Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or contract manufacturers who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were as follows:



28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net revenues in North America increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from Data Center and Wireline, which were sufficient to offset the decline in revenue from Aerospace and Defense in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 



Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were due to a broad-based increase in sales from most of our end markets, in particular the Wireless business in China. 



Net revenues in Europe increased in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. The increases were primarily due to higher sales from TME and Automotive. 



Net revenues in Japan was relatively flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, but increased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods. Revenue from TME increased for both periods, but the increase was offset by lower sales from Wireless, in particular during the second quarter of fiscal 2019. 



Gross Margin 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross margin was lower by 1.4 percentage points in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The decrease was driven primarily by changes in the end-market mix, as revenue from Communications increased while revenue from Industrial, Aerospace & Defense decreased. For the first six months of fiscal 2019, gross margin was in line with the comparable prior year period. 



Gross margin may be affected in the future due to multiple factors, including but not limited to those set forth in Item 1A. "Risk Factors," included in Part II of this Form 10-Q, shifts in the mix of customers and products, competitive-pricing pressure, manufacturing-yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our Advanced Products, improve manufacturing efficiencies, and improve average selling price management. The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. We also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins.



Research and Development



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



29

R&D spending increased by $25.4 million and $43.2 million for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods, respectively. The increases were primarily attributable to higher employee compensation related to variable spending, such as incentive compensation expenses associated with higher revenue and operating margin, and higher overall headcount to support our continuing product development.



We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and software development environments. We may also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas.



Selling, General and Administrative



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



SG&A expenses increased by $6.6 million and $8.0 million for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods, respectively, as we incurred higher variable spending associated with higher revenue and operating margin such as sales commission and incentive compensation expense, as well as higher costs related to customer support and merger and acquisition activities.



Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased slightly from the comparable prior year period. The increase was primarily due to additional amortization expense from intangible assets acquired through the Deephi Tech acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. Amortization expense for the first six months of fiscal 2019 was flat as compared to the prior year period as the additional amortization expense resulted from the Deephi Tech acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was offset by lower amortization expense from previous acquisitions as these acquisition-related intangibles have been fully amortized. 



Stock-Based Compensation



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The 4% decrease in stock-based compensation expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to higher forfeiture rate during the current quarter, which sufficiently offset the impact of higher expenses associated with the recent RSU grants that had higher fair value than in the prior years. The 3% increase in stock-based compensation expense for the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to higher expenses associated with RSUs, as we granted RSUs at a higher fair value than in the prior years.



Interest and Other Income, Net



30

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our net interest and other income, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by $4.6 million from the comparable prior year period primarily due to a gain from assessment of fair value of our preexisting investment in Deephi Tech. For the first six months of fiscal 2019, our net interest and other income was relatively flat as compared to the same prior year period. 



Provision for Income Taxes



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effective tax rate remained flat in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same prior year period. There was an increase in the provision for income taxes primarily due to the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries and an increase for adjustments to the provisional estimates previously recorded for the TCJA. The increase was offset by a significant reduction in the amount of deferred tax accrued on foreign earnings not considered to be permanently reinvested and the reduction in tax rate from 35% to 21%.



The increase in the effective tax rate in the first six months of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same prior year period was primarily due to the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries, a decrease in excess tax benefits with respect to stock-based compensation, and an increase for adjustments to the provisional estimates previously recorded for the TCJA. The increase was partially offset by a significant reduction in the amount of deferred tax accrued on foreign earnings not considered to be permanently reinvested and the reduction in tax rate from 35% to 21%.



The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% and our effective tax rate in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the favorable impact of income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, which was partially offset by the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries. The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35% and our effective tax rate in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, for which no U.S. income tax had been provided, as we intended to permanently reinvest these earnings outside of the U.S. 



On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law. The TCJA provides numerous significant tax law changes including the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, the requirement for companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred and the creation of new taxes on certain foreign-sourced earnings. As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to impact us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018, while other provisions began to impact us in fiscal 2019.



Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, Income Taxes, requires companies to recognize the effect of the tax law changes in the period of enactment. However, the SEC staff issued SAB 118 which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations. During the period ending September 29, 2018, we recognized a measurement period adjustment that resulted in a net expense of $9.4 million. See "Note 14. Income Taxes" to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 1. "Financial Statements." We will continue to assess the impact of the recently enacted tax law on our business and our condensed consolidated financial statements. The final impact of the TCJA recorded by us may vary materially from the provisional impact recorded due to a number of uncertainties and factors, including the need for further guidance and clarification of the new law by U.S. federal and state tax authorities and the need for further guidance on the income tax accounting.



31

As noted above, the TCJA established new tax laws that are effective beginning in our fiscal 2019. The change with the most significant impact to us is a provision designed to tax low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries. With respect to this provision, the FASB allows taxpayers to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating taxes due on U.S. inclusions in taxable income as a current-period expense when incurred or (2) recognizing deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as low-taxed income is earned in future years. We have not yet selected an accounting policy and our selection will depend, in part, on analyzing our facts to determine what the impact is expected to be under each method.



Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources



We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity as well as debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are liquid and available for future business needs.



The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments as of September 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018 totaled $3.37 billion and $3.55 billion, respectively. As of September 29, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.28 billion and working capital of $3.03 billion. As of March 31, 2018, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.45 billion and working capital was $3.24 billion.



As of September 29, 2018, we had $1.60 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held in our non-U.S. jurisdictions. As a result of the TCJA, substantially all of the $1.60 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our non-U.S. entities is available for use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S federal income taxes. 



Operating Activities —During the first six months of fiscal 2019, our operations generated net positive cash flow of $489.3 million, which was $96.3 million higher than the $393.0 million generated during the first six months of fiscal 2018. The positive cash flow from operations generated during the first six months of fiscal 2019 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, increase in accrued liabilities and decrease in accounts receivable. These items were partially offset by increase in other assets. Accounts receivable decreased by $9.3 million and days sales outstanding decreased to 47 days at September 29, 2018 from 55 days at March 31, 2018. We had no collectibility issues and our accounts receivable remained current as of September 29, 2018. We expect our accounts receivable to fluctuate as we partner with our distributors to manage their inventory requirements. Our inventory levels as of September 29, 2018 were $7.5 million higher at $243.6 million compared to $236.1 million at March 31, 2018, but the combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution decreased to 106 days at September 29, 2018 from 117 days at March 31, 2018. 



Investing Activities —Net cash used in investing activities was $328.3 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to $141.0 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018. Net cash used in investing activities during the first six months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of $223.5 million for business acquisition, $40.5 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, $38.9 million of net purchases of available-for-sale securities and $25.3 million of other investing activities.



Financing Activities —Net cash used in financing activities was $365.7 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to $148.5 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018. Net cash used in financing activities during the first six months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of $181.8 million dividend payments to stockholders, $160.5 million of cash payment to repurchase shares of common stock and $39.5 million of payment for RSU withholdings. These items were partially offset by $18.4 million proceeds from issuance of common stock.



Contractual Obligations



We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through April 2029. See "Note 15. Commitments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I. "Financial Information," for a schedule of our operating lease commitments as of September 29, 2018 and additional information about operating leases.



Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. As of September 29, 2018, we had $200.2 million of outstanding inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations to subcontractors. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications. As of September 29, 2018, we also had $8.9 million of non-cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/



32

software and $25.1 million of commitments primarily related to open purchase orders from ordinary operations. These commitments expire at various dates through December 2022.



As of September 29, 2018, we had $493.7 million of liabilities classified as long-term income taxes payable in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Of the $493.7 million, $473.3 million was the estimated long-term portion of the one-time transition tax that resulted from the enactment of the TCJA, which is payable in eight annual installments. The first installment was paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2019. The second installment is classified as a current income tax payable. The installment amounts are equal to 8% of the total liability, payable in fiscal 2019 through 2023, 15% in fiscal 2024, 20% in fiscal 2025, and 25% in fiscal 2026. See “Note 14. Income Taxes” to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in “Part I. Financial Information,” for additional information about the one-time transition tax. The remaining $20.4 million of the long-term income taxes payable is for uncertain tax positions and related interest and penalties. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with such liabilities, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities.



Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements



As of September 29, 2018, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $400.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in December 2016 (expiring in December 2021). We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the revolving credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our revolving credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility.



We repurchased 2.4 million shares of our common stock for $160.0 million during the first six months of fiscal 2019. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 3.7 million shares of common stock for a total of $237.5 million. During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we paid $181.8 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $0.36 per common share. During the first six months of fiscal 2018, we paid $174.3 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $0.35 per common share. On October 23, 2018 our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.36 per common share for the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The dividend is payable on December 4, 2018 to stockholders of record on November 13, 2018. Our common stock and debentures repurchase program and dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to R&D, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, principal and interest payments on our debentures and other strategic investments.



We anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, to procure additional capital equipment and facilities, to develop new products, and to potentially acquire technologies or businesses that could complement our business. However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A "Risk Factors" included in Part II "Other Information" and below could affect our cash positions adversely.



