Item 4.
Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

The Company, under the direction of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, has established disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Based upon their evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that as of March 31, 2019, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a -15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2019 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
We implemented internal controls to ensure we adequately evaluate and properly assess the impact of the new accounting standard related to leases.
There were no significant changes to our internal control over financial reporting due to the adoption of the new standard.
Legal Proceedings

We are defendants in various lawsuits or arbitration proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business.
Management believes, based on the opinion of legal counsel and other factors, that the aggregated liabilities, if any, arising from such actions will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and the cash flows of the Company.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors

There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed under Item 1A.
of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 are not the only risks facing us.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds




Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities

None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information

None.
Item 6.
Exhibits




+ This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement.
SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
