The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. ASU 2014-09 replaces most previous revenue recognition guidance in GAAP and requires the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of costs related to obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts. 
We adopted ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 utilizing the full retrospective method of transition, which requires that the standard be applied to all periods presented. The impact of adopting ASU 2014-09 on our total revenues for 2017 and 2016 was not material. The primary impacts of adopting ASU 2014-09 relate to the deferral of incremental commission and other costs of obtaining contracts with customers and the increase to the amortization period for those costs. Previously, we deferred only direct and incremental commission costs to obtain a contract and amortized those costs over the contract term, generally three years, as the revenue was recognized. Under the new standard, we defer all incremental commission and related fringe benefit costs to obtain a contract and amortize these costs in a manner that aligns with the expected period of benefit. We utilized the 'portfolio approach' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-10-4, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts. Using the 'portfolio approach' and taking into consideration our customer contracts, our technology and other factors, we determined the expected period of benefit to be five years. We do not generally pay commissions for contract renewals.
Select adjusted unaudited financial statement information, which reflects our adoption of ASU 2014-09 is set forth below.
Except for the accounting policies for revenue recognition and deferred commissions (herein referred to as "costs of obtaining contracts") that were updated as a result of adopting ASU 2014-09, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2018, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
•Recognition of revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation.
Recurring revenue represents stand-ready performance obligations in which we are making our solutions or services available to our customers continuously over time or the value of the contract renews. Therefore, recurring revenue is generally recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term, beginning on the date that the solution or service is made available to the customer. Our recurring revenue contracts are generally for a term of three years at contract inception with one to three-year renewals thereafter, billed annually in advance and non-cancelable.
Recurring revenue is comprised of fees for the use of our subscription-based software solutions, which includes providing access to cloud-based solutions, hosting services, online training programs, subscription-based analytic services, such as donor acquisitions and data enrichment, and payment services. Recurring revenue also includes fees from maintenance services for our on-premises solutions, services included in our renewable subscription contracts, subscription-based contracts for professional services and variable transaction revenue associated with the use of our solutions.
Our payment services are offered with the assistance of third-party vendors. In general, when we are the principal in a transaction based on the factors identified in ASC 606-10-55-36 through 55-40, we record the revenue and related costs on a gross basis. Otherwise, we net the cost of revenue associated with the service against the gross revenue (amount billed to the customer) and record the net amount as revenue. For payment and transaction services, we have the right to invoice the customer in an amount that directly corresponds with the value to the customer of our performance to date. Therefore, we recognize revenue for these services over time based on the amount billable to the customer in accordance with the 'as invoiced' practical expedient in ASC 606-10-55-18.
One-time services and other revenue primarily consists of fees for one-time consulting, analytic and onsite training services. 
We generally bill consulting services based on hourly rates plus reimbursable travel-related expenses. Fixed price consulting engagements are generally billed as milestones towards completion are reached. Revenue for all consulting services is recognized over time as the services are performed.
We generally recognize analytic services revenue from donor prospect research engagements, the sale of lists of potential donors, data enrichment engagements and benchmarking studies at a point in time (upon delivery).
Some of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices of our solutions and services are typically estimated based on observable transactions when the solutions or services are sold on a standalone basis.
On April 30, 2018, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of Reeher LLC, a Minnesota limited liability company (“Reeher”), pursuant to a securities purchase agreement. The acquisition expands our fundraising performance management capabilities and is intended to drive more effective fundraising and greater social good outcomes for our customers. We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $41.3 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the securities purchase agreement. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility (as defined below). As a result of the acquisition, Reeher has become a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. The operating results of Reeher have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, we incurred insignificant acquisition-related expenses associated with the acquisition, which were recorded in general and administrative expense.
The estimated fair value of accounts receivable acquired approximates the contractual value of $1.1 million and $11.8 million of the goodwill arising in the acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of Reeher.
The estimated fair values of the intangible assets were based on variations of the income approach, which estimates fair value based upon the present value of cash flows that the assets are expected to generate, and which included the relief-from-royalty method, incremental cash flow method, including the comparative (with and without) method and multi-period excess earnings method, depending on the intangible asset being valued. The method of amortization of identifiable finite-lived intangible assets is based on the expected pattern in which the estimated economic benefits of the respective assets are consumed or otherwise used up. Customer relationships and acquired technology are being amortized on an accelerated basis. Marketing assets and non-compete agreements are being amortized on a straight-line basis.
5. Earnings Per Share
We compute basic earnings per share by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the assumed exercise, settlement and vesting of all dilutive securities using the “treasury stock method” except when the effect is anti-dilutive. Potentially dilutive securities consist of shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, settlement of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units.
•Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Our derivative instruments within the scope of ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, are required to be recorded at fair value. Our derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value include interest rate swaps.
The fair value of our interest rate swaps was based on model-driven valuations using LIBOR rates, which are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Accordingly, our interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
We believe the carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash due to customers, accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities and due to customers approximate their fair values at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, due to the immediate or short-term maturity of these instruments.
We believe the carrying amount of our debt approximates its fair value at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, as the debt bears interest rates that approximate market value. As LIBOR rates are observable at commonly quoted intervals, our debt is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the nine months ended September 30, 2018. Additionally, we did not hold any Level 3 assets or liabilities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include intangible assets and goodwill, which are recognized at fair value during the period in which an acquisition is completed, from updated estimates and assumptions during the measurement period, or when they are considered to be impaired. These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs. In the event of an impairment, we determine the fair value of the intangible assets other than goodwill using a discounted cash flow approach, which contains significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, is considered a Level 3 fair value measurement. The unobservable inputs in the analysis generally include future cash flow projections and a discount rate. For goodwill impairment testing, we estimate fair value using market-based methods including the use of market capitalization and consideration of a control premium.
There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, except for an insignificant business combination accounting adjustment to the initial fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date from updated information obtained during the measurement period. See Note 4 to these consolidated financial statements for additional details. The measurement period of a business combination may be up to one year from the acquisition date. We record any measurement period adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
7. Consolidated Financial Statement Details
The following table summarizes our debt balances and the related weighted average effective interest rates, which includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements.
We generally use derivative instruments to manage our variable interest rate risk. In July 2017, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (the "July 2017 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under our credit facility to a fixed rate for the term of the July 2017 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the July 2017 Swap Agreement was $150.0 million with an effective date beginning in July 2017 through July 2021. We designated the July 2017 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.
In February 2018, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "February 2018 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under our credit facility to a fixed rate for the term of the February 2018 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the February 2018 Swap Agreement was $50.0 million with an effective date beginning in February 2018 through June 2021. We designated the February 2018 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.
In June 2017, we entered into a foreign currency option contract to hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations in connection with our acquisition of JustGiving because the purchase price was denominated in British Pounds. The notional value of the instrument was £100.0 million with an effective date beginning in June 2017 and maturing in September 2017. We settled the foreign currency option contract in September 2017. We did not designate the foreign currency option contract as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes since it involved a business combination. As such, changes in the fair value of this derivative were recognized in earnings. The insignificant premium paid for this option and the proceeds from settlement are shown within cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
As the closing date of our acquisition of JustGiving extended beyond the settlement date of the foreign currency option contract, we entered into a foreign currency forward contract in September 2017 with settlement in October 2017. The notional value of the instrument was £103.5 million. We did not designate the foreign currency forward contract as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes since it involved a business combination. As such, changes in the fair value of this derivative were recognized in earnings.
Total rent expense was $6.2 million and $3.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $16.2 million and $11.9 million, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The term loans under the 2017 Credit Facility require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. As of September 30, 2018, the remaining aggregate minimum purchase commitment under these arrangements was approximately $66.4 million through 2023.
The decrease in our effective income tax rate during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, when compared to the same period in 2017, was primarily due to the impact of the discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation items, calculated prior to the impact of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate change as a result of the Tax Act. This favorable impact was attributable to an increase in the market price for shares of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), as well as an increase in the number of stock awards that vested and were exercised. Most of our equity awards are granted during our first quarter and vest in subsequent years during the same quarter. The discrete benefit to income tax expense relating to stock-based compensation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was reduced as a result of the decrease in the U.S. corporate tax rate.
Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy, which provides for the distribution to stockholders of a portion of cash generated by us that is in excess of operational needs and capital expenditures. The 2017 Credit Facility limits the amount of dividends payable and certain state laws restrict the amount of dividends distributed.
In February 2018, our Board of Directors approved an annual dividend rate of $0.48 per share to be made in quarterly payments. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and our Board of Directors may decide, in its absolute discretion, at any time and for any reason, not to declare and pay further dividends. The following table provides information with respect to quarterly dividends of $0.12 per share paid on common stock during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
On October 29, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a fourth quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on December 14, 2018 to stockholders of record on November 28, 2018.
The prior period financial information presented below has been adjusted to reflect our adoption of ASU 2014-09.
We also applied the practical expedient in ASC 606-10-65-1-(f)(3), whereby the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations, or an explanation of when we expect to recognize that amount as revenue for all reporting periods presented before the date of the initial application, is not disclosed.
Blackbaud, Inc.
Contract assets increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily as a result of incremental revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed. The increase in deferred revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals in our second quarter as compared to our fourth quarter. The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $259 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
•The IMG focuses on sales to all prospects and customers outside of North America.
Blackbaud, Inc.
Blackbaud, Inc.
