We are the world’s leading cloud software company powering social good. Serving the entire social good community—nonprofits, foundations, companies, education institutions, healthcare organizations and individual change agents—we connect and empower organizations to increase their impact through cloud software, services, expertise and data intelligence. Our portfolio is tailored to the unique needs of vertical markets, with solutions for fundraising and CRM, marketing, advocacy, peer-to-peer fundraising, corporate social responsibility, school management, ticketing, grantmaking, financial management, payment processing and analytics. Serving the industry for more than three decades, we are headquartered in Charleston, South Carolina and have operations in the United States, Australia, Canada, Costa Rica and the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Blackbaud, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheet but recognize expenses in the income statement in a manner similar to previous guidance. The way in which entities classify leases determines how to recognize lease-related revenue and expense.
impairment. Additionally, we elected not to apply the recognition requirements of the new lease accounting standard to short-term leases. Adopting ASU 2016-02 had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2019, as we recognized $121.6 million of lease liabilities and $113.4 million of right-of-use ("ROU") assets for those leases classified as operating leases.
Except for the accounting policy added for leases below as a result of adopting ASU 2016-02, there have been no changes to our significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 20, 2019, that have had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception. Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets, accrued expense and other current liabilities, and operating lease liabilities, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2019.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. We use the implicit rate when readily determinable. The operating lease ROU asset also includes any initial direct costs and lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments related to our operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately. We do not recognize short-term leases (those that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less) on our consolidated balance sheets. Variable lease payments, which are primarily comprised of common-area maintenance, utilities and real estate taxes that are passed on from the lessor in proportion to the space leased by us, are recognized in operating expenses in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
On January 2, 2019, we acquired all of the outstanding equity securities, including all voting equity interests, of YourCause Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("YourCause"), pursuant to a purchase agreement and plan of merger. The acquisition expands our footprint in corporate social responsibility and employee engagement and enhances our position as a leader in providing solutions to both nonprofit organizations and for-profit companies committed to addressing social issues. We acquired the equity securities for an aggregate purchase price of $157.7 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the agreement and plan of merger. The purchase price and related expenses were funded primarily through borrowings under the 2017 Credit Facility (as defined below). As a result of the acquisition, YourCause has become a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. The operating results of YourCause have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we incurred insignificant acquisition-related expenses associated with the acquisition, which were recorded in general and administrative expense.
The estimated fair value of accounts receivable acquired approximates the contractual value of $4.1 million and $54.7 million of the goodwill arising in the acquisition is deductible for income tax purposes. The estimated goodwill recognized is attributable primarily to the opportunities for expected synergies from combining the operations and assembled workforce of YourCause. During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an insignificant measurement period adjustment to the estimated fair value of the YourCause assets acquired and liabilities assumed following the receipt of new information. The adjustment resulted in an increase to net working capital, excluding deferred revenue, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
The estimated fair values of the intangible assets were based on variations of the income approach, which estimates fair value based upon the present value of cash flows that the assets are expected to generate, and which included the relief-from-royalty method, incremental cash flow method, including the comparative (with and without) method and multi-period excess earnings method, depending on the intangible asset being valued. The method of amortization of identifiable finite-lived intangible assets is based on the expected pattern in which the estimated economic benefits of the respective assets are consumed or otherwise used up. Customer relationships and acquired technology assets are being amortized on an accelerated basis. Marketing assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis. The non-compete agreements were fully amortized as of March 31, 2019, based on the insignificance of the acquired assets.
5. Earnings Per Share
We compute basic earnings per share by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share reflect the assumed exercise, settlement and vesting of all dilutive securities using the “treasury stock method” except when the effect is anti-dilutive. Potentially dilutive securities consist of shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options, settlement of stock appreciation rights and vesting of restricted stock awards and units.
•Level 3 - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Our derivative instruments within the scope of Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 815, Derivatives and Hedging, are required to be recorded at fair value. Our derivative instruments that are recorded at fair value include interest rate swaps.
The fair value of our interest rate swaps was based on model-driven valuations using LIBOR rates, which are observable at commonly quoted intervals. Accordingly, our interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
We believe the carrying amount of our debt approximates its fair value at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, as the debt bears interest rates that approximate market value. As LIBOR rates are observable at commonly quoted intervals, our debt is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
We did not transfer any assets or liabilities among the levels within the fair value hierarchy during the six months ended June 30, 2019. Additionally, we did not hold any Level 3 assets or liabilities during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include intangible assets, goodwill and operating lease ROU assets, which are recognized at fair value during the period in which an acquisition is completed or at lease commencement, from updated estimates and assumptions during the measurement period, or when they are considered to be impaired. These non-recurring fair value measurements, primarily for intangible assets acquired and operating lease ROU assets, are based on Level 3 unobservable inputs. In the event of an impairment, we determine the fair value of the intangible assets other than goodwill using a discounted cash flow approach, which contains significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, is considered a Level 3 fair value measurement. The unobservable inputs in the analysis generally include future cash flow projections and a discount rate. For goodwill impairment testing, we estimate fair value using market-based methods including the use of market capitalization and consideration of a control premium. 
There were no non-recurring fair value adjustments to intangible assets and goodwill during the six months ended June 30, 2019, except for an insignificant business combination accounting adjustment to the initial fair value estimates of the YourCause assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date from updated information obtained during the measurement period. See Note 3 to these consolidated financial statements for additional details. We record any measurement period adjustments to the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
7. Consolidated Financial Statement Details
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we recognized lease liabilities for our operating leases. See Note 2 of these consolidated financial statements for details.
The following table summarizes our debt balances and the related weighted average effective interest rates, which includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements.
On January 2, 2019, we acquired YourCause for $157.7 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the agreement and plan of merger. We financed the acquisition with a revolving credit loan under the 2017 Credit Facility.
We generally use derivative instruments to manage our variable interest rate risk. In July 2017, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement (the "July 2017 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2017 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the July 2017 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the July 2017 Swap Agreement was $150.0 million with an effective date beginning in July 2017 through July 2021. We designated the July 2017 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.
In February 2018, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "February 2018 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2017 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the February 2018 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the February 2018 Swap Agreement was $50.0 million with an effective date beginning in February 2018 through June 2021. We designated the February 2018 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.
In June 2019, we entered into an additional interest rate swap agreement (the "June 2019 Swap Agreement"), which effectively converts portions of our variable rate debt under the 2017 Credit Facility to a fixed rate for the term of the June 2019 Swap Agreement. The notional value of the June 2019 Swap Agreement was $75.0 million with an effective date beginning in June 2019 through June 2021. We designated the June 2019 Swap Agreement as a cash flow hedge at the inception of the contract.
We have operating leases for corporate offices, subleased offices and certain equipment and furniture. Our leases have remaining lease terms of less than 1 year to 19 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 5 years. We do not have lease agreements with residual value guarantees, sale leaseback terms or material restrictive covenants.
In May 2016, we entered into a lease agreement for our New Headquarters Facility in Charleston, South Carolina. There are two phases for construction of the New Headquarters Facility. Phase One included a building with approximately 172,000 rentable square feet, which we began using in April 2018. The lease agreement also grants us a Phase Two option to request that the landlord construct and lease to us a second office building and related improvements. The lease agreement expires in April 2038 and provides for four renewal periods of five years each at a base rent equal to the then prevailing market rate for comparable buildings.
We continue to lease our former headquarters facility, now called our Customer Operations Center, in Charleston, South Carolina. The lease expires in October 2023 and has two five-year renewal options. We also have a lease for office space in Austin, Texas which expires in September 2023 and has two five-year renewal options.
For each of the leases discussed above, we have not included the renewal options in the lease terms for calculating the lease liability as the renewal options allow us to maintain operational flexibility and we are not reasonably certain we will exercise these options at this time.
As of June 30, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for office space, that have not yet commenced with future rent payments of $6.5 million. These operating leases will commence during fiscal year 2019 with lease terms of two years.
Includes short-term lease costs, which were immaterial.
Total rent expense as determined under ASC 840 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 was $5.5 million and $9.9 million, respectively.
The term loans under the 2017 Credit Facility require periodic principal payments. The balance of the term loans and any amounts drawn on the revolving credit loans are due upon maturity of the 2017 Credit Facility in June 2022.
We have contractual obligations for third-party technology used in our solutions and for other services we purchase as part of our normal operations. In certain cases, these arrangements require a minimum annual purchase commitment by us. As of June 30, 2019, the remaining aggregate minimum purchase commitment under these arrangements was approximately $106.5 million through 2023.
Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy, which provides for the distribution to stockholders of a portion of cash generated by us that is in excess of operational needs and capital expenditures. The 2017 Credit Facility limits the amount of dividends payable and certain state laws restrict the amount of dividends distributed.
On July 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a third quarter dividend of $0.12 per share payable on September 13, 2019 to stockholders of record on August 28, 2019.
The increase in deferred revenue during the six months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to new subscription sales of our cloud-based solutions and a seasonal increase in customer contract renewals. Historically, due to the timing of customer budget cycles, we have an increase in customer contract renewals at or near the beginning of our third quarter. Our acquisition of YourCause on January 2, 2019 has also modestly contributed to the increase in deferred revenue since December 31, 2018. The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2019 that was included in the deferred revenue balance at the beginning of the period was approximately $220 million. The amount of revenue recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was insignificant.
•The GMG focuses on sales primarily to all K-12 private schools, faith-based and arts and cultural organizations, as well as emerging and mid-sized prospects in the U.S.;
•The IMG focuses on sales primarily to all prospects and customers outside of the U.S.
Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, all of our Canadian operations are included in IMG. We have recast our revenue by market group for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, to present them on a consistent basis with the current year.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018. See additional details below.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 at January 1, 2019, we reduced our operating lease ROU assets recognized at transition by the carrying amounts of the restructuring liabilities for certain leased office spaces that we ceased using prior to December 31, 2018.
