item1.txt
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires the Company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the consolidated statements of operations for the second quarter and six months ended December 29, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the second quarter and six months ended December 30, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted, as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s Fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the six months ended December 29, 2018.
Substantially all of the Company’s sales continue to be recognized when products are shipped from the Company’s facilities or delivered to customers, depending on the respective contractual terms.
For a nominal portion of the Company’s contracts where the accounting did change, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of $2.0 million as of July 1, 2018.
This impact was primarily due to the acceleration of recognition of net sales and associated gross profit related to certain uncompleted contracts for the manufacture of goods with no alternative use and for which the Company has an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, from the customer for performance completed to date.
For these contracts, the Company recognizes revenue over time as control of the goods transfers through the manufacturing process, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted this standard effective the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, which required changes to the classification of net periodic pension costs in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
The adoption of ASU No. 2017-07 did not have any impact on the Company’s reported amount of income from continuing operations before taxes.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2017-12 on its consolidated financial statements.
Effective July 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replace revenue recognition policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s Fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
For contracts related to the specialized manufacture of products for customers with no alternative use and for which the Company has an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, the Company recognizes revenue over time as control of the products transfer through the manufacturing process.
The impact of this acquisition was not material to the Company’s consolidated balance sheets or statements of operations and as a result, the Company has not disclosed the preliminary allocation of purchase price or the pro-forma impact of the acquisition.
In August 2018, the Company executed a settlement agreement with the Buyer resulting in a final adjustment of $120.0 million and a final geographic allocation of the TS business sales price for tax reporting purposes.
In connection with the sale of the TS business, the Company entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”), pursuant to which the Buyer will pay the Company to provide certain information technology, distribution, facilities, finance and human resources related services for various periods of time depending upon the services not to exceed approximately two years from the closing date.
Under the contractual terms of the sale of the TS business, the Company has indemnified the Buyer for certain liabilities including income and other tax related matters, which may result in future indemnification payments to the Buyer depending upon the outcome of those matters subject to indemnification.
Indicators the Company evaluates to determine whether an interim goodwill impairment test is necessary include, but are not limited to (i) a sustained decrease in share price or market capitalization as of any fiscal quarter end, (ii) changes in the macroeconomic or industry environments, (iii) the results of and the amount of time passed since the last goodwill impairment test and (iv) the long-term expected financial performance of its reporting units.
Bank credit facilities and other consists primarily of various committed and uncommitted lines of credit and other forms of bank debt with financial institutions utilized primarily to support the working capital requirements of the Company including its foreign operations.
The Company has an accounts receivable securitization program (the “Securitization Program”) in the United States with a group of financial institutions to allow the Company to transfer, on an ongoing revolving basis, an undivided interest in a designated pool of trade accounts receivable, to provide security or collateral for borrowings up to a maximum of $500 million.
The Securitization Program also requires the Company to maintain certain minimum interest coverage and leverage ratios, which the Company was in compliance with as of December 29, 2018, and June 30, 2018.
The Securitization Program expires in August 2020 and as a result the Company has classified outstanding balances as long-term debt as of December 29, 2018.
The Company has a five-year $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of banks, consisting of revolving credit facilities and the issuance of up to $200.0 million of letters of credit and up to $300.0 million of loans in certain approved currencies, which expires in June 2023.
The Credit Facility also includes financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain minimum interest coverage and leverage ratios, which the Company was in compliance with as of December 29, 2018, and June 30, 2018.
As of December 29, 2018, the carrying value and fair value of the Company’s total debt was $1.96 billion and $1.97 billion, respectively.
The Company adjusts any economic hedges to fair value through the consolidated statements of operations primarily within “other income, net.” The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are based upon Level 2 criteria under the ASC 820 fair value hierarchy, are classified in the captions “Prepaid and other current assets” or “Accrued expenses and other,” as applicable, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 29, 2018, and June 30, 2018.
The Company’s policy is to present derivative financial instruments with the same counterparty as either a net asset or liability when the right of offset exists.
As of December 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the Company had aggregate estimated liabilities of $14.7 million and $14.2 million, respectively, classified within accrued expenses and other for such compliance-related matters that were reasonably estimable as of such dates.
As of the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company had recorded a provisional benefit of $2.4 million to account for the deferred tax impacts of the Act, which was increased by $1.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as a result of the Company refining its estimate of the fiscal year 2018 federal net operating loss.
In connection with the adoption of ASU No. 2017-07, the Company now classifies service cost as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses and other components of net periodic pension costs within other income, net.
Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, to other income, net during the second quarters and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 were not material and substantially all related to net periodic pension costs including recognition of actuarial losses and amortization of prior service credits.
As a result, the Company recorded a pension settlement expense of $14.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, which was classified as a component of loss from discontinued operations.
During the second quarter and six months ended December 29, 2018, the Company repurchased 4.1 million and 7.4 million shares, respectively, under this program for a total cost of $175.1 million and $332.0 million, respectively.
As of December 29, 2018, the Company had $440.1 million remaining under its share repurchase authorization.
During the six months ended December 29, 2018, the Company paid dividends of $0.40 per common share and $44.7 million in total.
As a result primarily of certain former manufacturing operations, the Company has incurred and may have future liability under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and exposure to, and the handling, storage and disposal of, hazardous substances.
Based on the information known to date, management believes that the Company has appropriately accrued in its consolidated financial statements for its share of the estimable costs of environmental and other compliance related matters.


item2.txt
Avnet operating income margin was 1.9% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared with 1.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Excluding these expenses from both periods, adjusted operating income margin was 3.5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to 3.1% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in operating income margin is primarily due to the year over year growth in sales and a reduction in operating expenses from the Company’s restructuring and integration efforts, partially offset by a decline in gross profit margin.
Sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $5.05 billion, an increase of 11.7%, or $527.3 million, from the prior year second quarter sales of $4.52 billion.
EC sales of $4.68 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $517.2 million or 12.4% from the prior year second quarter sales of $4.16 billion.
PF sales for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 were $368.3 million, an increase of $10.1 million or 2.8% from the prior year second quarter sales of $358.1 million driven by growth in all three regions.
Gross profit for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $630.0 million, an increase of $27.6 million, or 4.6%, from the second quarter of fiscal 2018 gross profit of $602.5 million primarily driven by the increase in sales.
Comparatively, in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, restructuring, integration and other expenses were $36.8 million.
Operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $96.1 million, an increase of $14.4 million, or 17.7%, from the second quarter of fiscal 2018 of $81.6 million.
The year over year increase in operating income was primarily driven by the increase in sales and the reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses as compared to the prior year second quarter, partially offset by the decline in gross profit margin.
Adjusted operating income for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $178.8 million, an increase of $38.6 million, or 27.5%, from the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The year over year increase in adjusted operating income was primarily driven by the increase in sales and the reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses as compared to the prior year second quarter, partially offset by the decline in gross profit margin.
Interest and other financing expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $33.7 million, an increase of $10.9 million or 47.7%, as compared with interest and other financing expenses of $22.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Interest and other financing expenses in the first six months of fiscal 2019 was $63.8 million, an increase of $19.0 million or 42.3%, as compared with interest and other financing expenses of $44.8 million in the first six months of fiscal 2018.The increase in interest and other financing expenses in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 was primarily related to increased expenses in Asia to finance working capital needs and from lower interest income from investments in cash equivalents between the fiscal years.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had $2.6 million of other income as compared with $3.3 million of other income in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, the Company had income related to the Company’s pension plans, partially offset by foreign currency losses primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to certain currencies.
Loss from discontinued operations was $0.4 million and $0.2 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019.
Loss from discontinued operations was $10.1 million and $9.9 million in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2018, respectively, primarily as a result of settlement losses associated with the Company’s pension plan due to former TS business employees requesting and receiving distributions from the Company’s pension plan during fiscal 2018.
The Company also used $56.3 million of cash from discontinued operations operating activities related to income taxes paid on the gain from the sale of the TS business.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, the Company received $123.5 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations from the sale of the TS business.
During the first six months of fiscal 2018, the Company generated $112.7 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations, substantially all driven by the sale of marketable securities obtained through the sale of the TS business.
The Company generated $299.9 million in cash flows from operating activities over the trailing four fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2018 from continuing operations.
The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the second quarter of fiscal 2019, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.


item3.txt
The Company continues to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not economically hedged.


part2.txt
As a result primarily of certain former manufacturing operations, the Company has incurred and may have future liability under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and exposure to, and the handling, storage and disposal of, hazardous substances.
For example, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and similar state laws, the Company is and may be liable for the costs of cleaning up environmental contamination on or from certain of its current or former properties, and at off-site locations where the Company disposed of wastes in the past.
Pursuant to SEC regulations, including but not limited to Item 103 of Regulation S-K, the Company regularly assesses the status of and developments in pending environmental and other compliance related legal proceedings to determine whether any such proceedings should be identified specifically in this discussion of legal proceedings, and has concluded that no particular pending legal proceeding requires public disclosure.


