item1.txt
Topic 606 supersedes previous revenue recognition guidance and requires the Company to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for such goods or services.
Under this transition method, the Company’s results in the consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended September 29, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while the comparative results for the three months ended September 30, 2017 were not retrospectively adjusted, as such results were recognized in accordance with the revenue recognition policy discussed under Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s Fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements as of the adoption date and as of and for the three months ended September 29, 2018.
Substantially all of the Company’s sales continue to be recognized when products are shipped from the Company’s facilities or delivered to customers, depending on the respective contractual terms.
For a nominal portion of the Company’s contracts where the accounting did change, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of $2.0 million as of July 1, 2018.
This impact was primarily due to the acceleration of recognition of net sales and associated gross profit related to certain uncompleted contracts for the manufacture of goods with no alternative use and for which the Company has an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, from the customer for performance completed to date.
For these contracts, the Company now recognizes revenue over time as control of the goods transfers through the manufacturing process, rather than when the goods are delivered, and title, risk and reward of ownership are passed to the customer, as under previous revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted this standard effective the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, which required changes to the classification of net periodic pension costs in the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
The adoption of ASU No. 2017-07 did not have any impact on the Company’s reported amount of income from continuing operations before taxes.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2017-12 on its consolidated financial statements.
Topic 842 requires companies to generally recognize operating and financing lease liabilities on the balance sheet and corresponding right-of-use assets created by those leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
The Company intends to adopt Topic 842 when it becomes effective in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 using a modified retrospective approach.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of its pending adoption of Topic 842 on its consolidated financial statements and expects that most of its operating lease commitments related to the Company’s real estate portfolio will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption, which will materially increase total assets and total liabilities relative to such amounts prior to adoption.
Effective July 1, 2018, the Company adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective transition method, resulting in accounting policy changes surrounding revenue recognition which replace revenue recognition policies discussed in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 1 of the Company’s Fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
For contracts related to the specialized manufacture of products for customers with no alternative use and for which the Company has an enforceable right to payment, including a reasonable profit margin, the Company recognizes revenue over time as control of the products transfer through the manufacturing process.
In August 2018, the Company executed a settlement agreement with the Buyer resulting in a final adjustment of $120.0 million and a final geographic allocation of the TS business sales price for tax reporting purposes.
In connection with the sale of the TS business, the Company entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”), pursuant to which the Buyer will pay the Company to provide certain information technology, distribution, facilities, finance and human resources related services for various periods of time depending upon the services not to exceed approximately two years from the closing date.
Indicators the Company evaluates to determine whether an interim goodwill impairment test is necessary include, but are not limited to (i) a sustained decrease in share price or market capitalization as of any fiscal quarter end, (ii) changes in the macroeconomic or industry environments, (iii) the results of and the amount of time passed since the last goodwill impairment test and (iv) the long-term expected financial performance of its reporting units.
The following table presents the Company’s acquired intangible assets at September 29, 2018, and June 30, 2018, respectively.
Bank credit facilities and other consists primarily of various committed and uncommitted lines of credit and other forms of bank debt with financial institutions utilized primarily to support the working capital requirements of the Company including its foreign operations.
In August 2018, the Company amended and extended its accounts receivable securitization program (the “Securitization Program”) in the United States with a group of financial institutions to allow the Company to transfer, on an ongoing revolving basis, an undivided interest in a designated pool of trade accounts receivable, to provide security or collateral for borrowings up to a maximum of $500 million.
The Securitization Program also requires the Company to maintain certain minimum interest coverage and leverage ratios, which the Company was in compliance with as of September 29, 2018, and June 30, 2018.
The Securitization Program expires in August 2020 and as a result the Company has classified outstanding balances as long-term debt as of September 29, 2018.
The Company has a five-year $1.25 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of banks, consisting of revolving credit facilities and the issuance of up to $200.0 million of letters of credit and up to $300.0 million of loans in certain approved currencies, which expires in June 2023.
The Credit Facility also includes financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain minimum interest coverage and leverage ratios, which the Company was in compliance with as of September 29, 2018, and June 30, 2018.
As of September 29, 2018, the carrying value and fair value of the Company’s total debt was $1.57 billion and $1.59 billion, respectively.
The Company reduces this risk by utilizing natural hedging (e.g., offsetting receivables and payables in the same foreign currency) as well as by creating offsetting positions through the use of derivative financial instruments, primarily forward foreign exchange contracts typically with maturities of less than 60 days (“economic hedges”), but no longer than one year.
The Company adjusts any economic hedges to fair value through the consolidated statements of operations primarily within “other income (expense), net.” The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts, which are based upon Level 2 criteria under the ASC 820 fair value hierarchy, are classified in the captions “Prepaid and other current assets” or “Accrued expenses and other,” as applicable, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of September 29, 2018, and June 30, 2018.
The Company’s policy is to present derivative financial instruments with the same counterparty as either a net asset or liability when the right of offset exists.
As of September 29, 2018 and June 30, 2018, the Company had aggregate estimated liabilities of $14.7 million and $14.2 million, respectively, classified within accrued expenses and other for such compliance-related matters that were reasonably estimable as of such dates.
The Company’s effective tax rate on its income before income taxes from continuing operations was 27.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared with 5.4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company’s effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) an adjustment to the provisional estimate for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability recorded under the requirements of the Act and (ii) increases in unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by (iii) an adjustment to the provisional deferred tax impacts of the Act and (iv) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate was favorably impacted primarily by (i) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions and (ii) the release of unrecognized tax benefit reserves primarily due to the negotiation of a favorable outcome in a foreign jurisdiction.
The Company continues to evaluate the impact of the Act including the Company’s historical assertion related to ASC 740 Income Taxes unremitted earnings.
In connection with the adoption of ASU No. 2017-07, the Company now classifies service cost as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses and other components of net periodic pension costs within other income (expense), net.
During the three months ended September 29, 2018, the Company repurchased 3.3 million under this program for a total cost of $156.9 million.
As of September 29, 2018, the Company had $615.2 million remaining under its share repurchase authorization.
In August 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a dividend of $0.20 per common share and dividend payments of $22.9 million were made in September 2018.
Based on the information known to date, management believes that the Company has appropriately accrued in its consolidated financial statements for its share of the estimable costs of environmental and other compliance related matters.


item2.txt
Sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $5.09 billion, an increase of 9.2%, or $428.9 million, from the prior year first quarter sales of $4.66 billion.
EC sales of $4.71 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $403.6 million or 9.4% from the prior year first quarter sales of $4.31 billion.
PF sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 were $379.1 million, an increase of $25.4 million or 7.2% from the prior year first quarter sales of $353.7 million driven by growth in all three regions.
As discussed in Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 did not have a material impact on the amounts of sales reported or the comparability of sales and gross profit margins year over year.
Comparatively, in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, restructuring, integration and other expenses from continuing operations were $46.4 million.
Adjusted operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $182.5 million, an increase of $46.0 million, or 33.7%, from the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in interest and other financing expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily related to increased expenses in Asia to finance working capital needs and from lower interest income from investments in cash equivalents between the fiscal years.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had $1.9 million of other expense, net, as compared with $18.9 million of other income, net, in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had foreign currency losses primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to certain currencies, partially offset by income related to the Company’s pension plans.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company had foreign currency gains primarily due to the strengthening of the Euro compared to the U.S. Dollar and British Pound and other income related to the Company’s pension plans.
The Company’s effective tax rate on its income before income taxes from continuing operations was 27.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared with 5.4% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company’s effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted primarily by (i) an adjustment to the provisional transition tax expense estimate recorded under the requirements of the Act and (ii) increases in unrecognized tax benefits, partially offset by (iii) an adjustment to the provisional deferred tax impacts of the Act and (iv) the mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company made net repayments of $40.0 million under the Securitization Program.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company paid dividends on common stock of $22.9 million and repurchased $149.1 million of common stock.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company received net proceeds of $28.0 million under the Securitization Program.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company repaid $24.9 million from borrowings of various bank credit facilities and $92.5 million under the Company’s Credit Facility.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company paid dividends on common stock of $22.0 million and repurchased $68.1 million of common stock.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company used $41.0 million for capital expenditures primarily related to warehouse and facilities, computer hardware and software purchases and information system development costs compared to $26.7 million for capital expenditures in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company used $14.7 million of cash for acquisitions, which is net of the cash acquired.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company received $120.0 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations from the sale of the TS business.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company generated $45.4 million of cash from investing activities – discontinued operations as a result of the sale of marketable securities obtained through the sale of the TS business.
See Note 5, “Debt” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on financing transactions including the Credit Facility, the Securitization Program, and other outstanding debt as of September 29, 2018.
As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had a combined total borrowing capacity of $1.75 billion under the Credit Facility and the Securitization Program.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company had an average daily balance outstanding of approximately $65.0 million under the Securitization Program.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company had an average daily balance outstanding of approximately $10.3 million under the Credit Facility and approximately $166.0 million under the Securitization Program.
The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.


item3.txt
The Company continues to have exposure to such risks to the extent they are not economically hedged.


part2.txt
As a result primarily of certain former manufacturing operations, Avnet has incurred and may have future liability under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and exposure to, and the handling, storage and disposal of, hazardous substances.
For example, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and similar state laws, Avnet is and may be liable for the costs of cleaning up environmental contamination on or from certain of its current or former properties, and at off-site locations where the Company disposed of wastes in the past.
Pursuant to SEC regulations, including but not limited to Item 103 of Regulation S-K, the Company regularly assesses the status of and developments in pending environmental and other compliance related legal proceedings to determine whether any such proceedings should be identified specifically in this discussion of legal proceedings, and has concluded that no particular pending legal proceeding requires public disclosure.
Based on the information known to date, management believes that the Company has appropriately accrued in its consolidated financial statements for its share of the estimable costs of environmental and other compliance related matters.


