 Item 1.
Consolidated Financial Statements
 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.
 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 (unaudited)
 (In thousands, except share and per share data)
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 Table of Contents
 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 (unaudited)
 (In thousands, except per share data)
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 Table of Contents
 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 (unaudited)
 (In thousands)
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 Table of Contents
 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 (unaudited)
 (In thousands)
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 Table of Contents
 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
 (unaudited)
 (In thousands, except share data)
 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
 Table of Contents
 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited)
 1.
Basis of Presentation
 The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, all material adjustments, which are of a normal and recurring nature and necessary for a fair statement of the financial position and results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented, have been reflected in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements.
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected for the full fiscal year.
 Discontinued Operations
 In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The Company determined that the cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of September 30, 2018.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements were restated for all periods presented to reflect the discontinuation of the cryogenics business, in accordance with FASB ASC 205.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
 Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Company’s annual consolidated financial statements have been condensed or omitted and, accordingly, the accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018 (the "2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K").
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
 Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements
 During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company identified a misclassification related to the presentation of the product and service revenue and the cost of product and service revenue related to GENEWIZ in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The total revenue and cost of revenue related to GENEWIZ for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were included in the product revenue and cost of revenue line items instead of the service revenue and cost of revenue line items in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
GENEWIZ was acquired during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and therefore the misclassifiation did not impact any other historical periods.
The misclassification had no impact on total revenue or the total cost of revenue, gross profit, operating income (loss), net income (loss), as well as basic and diluted net income (loss) per share during any of the periods presented.
Additionally, the misclassification had no impact on the Company's consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows during any of the prior periods.
The Company considered the guidance in Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) Topic 250, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,” ASC Topic 250-10-S99-1, “Assessing Materiality,” and ASC Topic 250-10-S99-2, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" in evaluating whether the Company’s previously issued consolidated financial statements were materially misstated.
The Company concluded this misclassification was not material individually or in the aggregate to the financial statements presented for the three months ended December 31, 2018, and therefore, amendments of the previously filed Form 10-Q for the three months ended December 31, 2018 was not required.
The revision for this correction to the three months ended December 31, 2018 is reflected in the reported
 Table of Contents
revenue and cost of revenue classification for the six months ended March 31, 2019 in this report and will be corrected in any future filings containing such financial information for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 Use of Estimates
 The preparation of unaudited consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the unaudited consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Significant estimates are associated with accounts receivable, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets other than goodwill, long-lived assets, derivative financial instruments, deferred income taxes, warranty obligations, revenue recognized on an over time method, pension obligations and stock-based compensation expense.
The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions, including in certain circumstances future projections that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Although the Company regularly assesses these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
 Foreign Currency Translation
 Certain transactions of the Company and its subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than their functional currency.
 Foreign currency exchange losses generated from the settlement and remeasurement of these transactions are recognized in earnings and presented within “Other expenses, net” in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 and $0.6 million and $2.5 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
 Table of Contents
 Derivative Instruments
 The fair values of the forward contracts are recorded in the Company’s accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets as "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" and "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities".
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
 Fair Value Measurements
 As of March 31, 2019, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
 In March 2019, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2019-01 “Leases (Topic 842) - Codification Improvements”, which makes targeted changes to lessor accounting and clarifies interim transition disclosure requirements.
The targeted changes to the lessor accounting are not applicable to the Company because we are not in the industry to be targeted by the guidance.
The ASU clarifies that companies are exempt from making the interim period transition disclosures required by ASC 250, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, for the period in which a change in accounting principle is made as a result of adopting ASC 842.
This interim period disclosure exemption is consistent with ASC 842, which already allowed companies to exclude the annual effect of the accounting change on income from continuing operations, net income and per-share amounts for periods post-adoption.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
 Table of Contents
 In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which amends ASC 715 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The amendments require additional disclosure for the weighted-average interest crediting rates, a narrative description of the reasons for significant gains and losses, and an explanation of any other significant changes in the benefit obligation or plan assets.
The amendment removes disclosure requirement for accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized over the next year, information about plan assets to be returned to the entity, and the effects of a one-percentage-point change on the assumed health care costs and the effect of this change in rates on service cost, interest cost, and the benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits.
The ASU is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020.
Early adoption is permitted.
The ASU does not amend the interim disclosure requirements of ASC 715-20.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
 In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which amends ASC 220 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to reporting comprehensive income.
This ASU gives entities the option to reclassify tax effects recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a result of tax reform to retained earnings.
The entities have the option to apply the guidance retrospectively or in the period of adoption.
The guidance requires entities to make new disclosures, regardless of whether they elect to reclassify tax effects.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption in any period is permitted.
The Company expects to adopt
 Table of Contents
the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), which amends ASC 326 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to credit losses of financial instruments.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption of the newly issued guidance is permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
The standard should be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 and is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its financial position and results of operations.
 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB ASC.
In accordance with the provisions of the newly issued guidance, a lessee should recognize at the inception of the arrangement a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability initially measured at the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 and is currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its financial position and results of operations.
 Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
 In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
In addition, the guidance requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
The guidance also specifies the accounting for certain costs to obtain and fulfill a contract, as codified in ASC 340-40 Accounting for Other Assets and Deferred Costs (“ASC 340-40”).
 The Company adopted this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and has only applied this method to contracts that were not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts have not been restated and continue to be reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.
 Table of Contents
 Upon adoption the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $0.9 million, net of tax adjustment of $0.4 million, which resulted in an increase to the opening accumulated deficit balance on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily driven by deferral of previously recognized revenue within the Brooks Life Sciences segment, offset by deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
 A portion of the adjustment related to the acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment results from the change in the revenue recognition rules.
Upon the adoption of ASC 606, the Company is no longer required to defer revenue in accordance with billing constraints defined in the contract with the customer.
The change impacted the Company’s semiconductor contamination control solutions revenue stream as under this new guidance, the Company recognizes revenue in an amount equivalent to the transfer of control that has occurred.
(Please refer to Note 13, “Revenue” for further information on when control is transferred).
As a result, revenue previously deferred due to the contractual billing restraints that otherwise met the revenue recognition requirements was accelerated into the opening accumulated deficit balance resulting in an increase to accumulated deficit of $0.9 million as of October 1, 2018.
 A portion of the adjustment related to the deferral of previously recognized revenue within the Brooks Life Science segment related to fees associated with registration of biological samples.
This adjustment is derived from the new requirement to recognize revenue associated with certain sample life cycle management solutions transactions over time under ASC 606, while historically these transactions have been recorded at a point in time.
Registration fees for these samples were previously recognized as revenue at a point in time upon completion of the registration and are now required to be recognized ratably over the period of benefit under ASC 606.
As a result, upon adopting the standard the Company deferred previously recognized registration fee revenue for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
The period of benefit associated with registration fees has been determined to be approximately 24 months resulting in the deferral of revenue historically recognized at a point in time over this period.
This change resulted in a decrease to accumulated deficit of $3.1 million as of October 1, 2018.
  A portion of the adjustment is related to the deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Science segment.
This portion of the adjustment is derived from the new requirement to recognize the cost to obtain certain transactions over time under ASC 340-40, while historically this expense has been recognized at a point in time.
The standard requires certain costs incurred to obtain a contract to be recorded as an asset when incurred and expensed as the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligations occur or over the estimated customer life, depending on the nature of the underlying contract.
As a result, upon adopting the standard the Company deferred previously recognized costs for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
The estimated customer life has been determined to be approximately 60 months resulting in the deferral of costs historically expensed at a point in time over this period.
This change resulted in an increase to accumulated deficit of $1.5 million as of October 1, 2018.
 Table of Contents
 Additional changes to the Company’s accumulated deficit were made as the result of adopting ASC 606.
These changes, which resulted in a cumulative decrease to accumulated deficit of $0.2 million as of October 1, 2018, were driven by the identification of additional performance obligations as well as changes in the transfer of control of certain performance obligations across both the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group and Brooks Life Science segments.
The additional changes to the Company’s accumulated deficit included a cumulative decrease to accumulated deficit of $0.2 million from discontinued operations.
 The difference between the reported results and the results without the adoption of ASC 606 was primarily driven from the elimination of revenue constraints due to billing limitations that resulted in acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the deferral of fees associated with the registration of biological samples within the Brooks Life Science segment.
Amortization of costs to obtain a contract capitalized through the cumulative effect adjustment described above have resulted in additional expense in the current period under ASC 606.
Except as disclosed above, the adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2019.
 Table of Contents
 Other
 For further information with regard to the Company’s significant accounting policies, please refer to Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
 On August 27, 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group) for $675.0 million in cash.
The purchase price is subject to adjustments for working capital and other items.
The Company anticipates closing of the transaction in the third fiscal quarter of 2019 upon satisfaction of various closing conditions and regulatory approvals.
 The semiconductor cryogenics business consists of the CTI pump business, Polycold chiller business, the related services business and the Company's 50% share in Ulvac Cryogenics, Inc., a joint venture based in Japan.
The semiconductor cryogenics business was originally acquired by the Company in its 2005 merger with Helix Technology Corporation and is included in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment as part of the segment.
 In connection with the Disposition, the Company and Edwards have agreed to enter into a transition service agreement, a supply agreement, and lease agreements.
The transition service agreement outlines the information technology, people, and facility support the Company expects to provide to Edwards for a period up to 9 months after transaction closing date.
The supply agreement allows the Company to purchase CTI and Polycold goods at cost from Edwards up to an aggregate amount equal to $1.0 million during the one-year term after closing of the Disposition.
The lease agreements will provide facility space to Edwards free of charge for three years after the transaction closing date.
Edwards will have the option to renew each lease at the then current market rates after the initial three-year lease term has ended.
This Disposition is consistent with the Company’s long-standing strategy to increase shareholder value by accelerating the growth of its Life Sciences business with further acquisitions and strengthening its semiconductor automation business with opportunistic acquisitions.
 The Disposition met the "held for sale" criteria and the “discontinued operation” criteria in accordance with FASB ASC 205 as of September 30, 2018.
As such, its operating results have been reported as a discontinued operation for all periods presented.
 Table of Contents
 The table above reflects revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 in accordance with ASC 606, while results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 have not been restated and are reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.
Results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 were not significantly impacted by the adoption of ASC 606.
 The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis in April 2018.
This analysis was updated upon announcement of the Disposition for the year ended September 30, 2018.
The Company has concluded that there is no impairment indicator related to the goodwill of the Disposition group at either date the impairment analysis was performed.
 Table of Contents
 Table of Contents
 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Marketable securities reported as current assets represent investments that mature within one year from the balance sheet date.
Long-term marketable securities represent investments with maturity dates greater than one year from the balance sheet date.
The securities are valued using matrix pricing and benchmarking and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices.
 Unrealized gains and losses are excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income until the security is sold or matures.
Gains or losses realized from sales of marketable securities are computed based on the specific identification method and recognized as a component of "Other expenses, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
There were no sales of marketable securities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
There were no sales of marketable securities during the six months ended March 31, 2018.
During the six months ended March 31, 2019, the Company sold marketable securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $49.4 million and $49.5 million, respectively, and recognized net losses of $0.1 million.
As a result, during this period, the Company collected cash proceeds of $48.9 million from the sale of marketable securities and reclassified net unrealized holding losses of $0.1 million from accumulated other comprehensive income into "Other expenses, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations as a result of these transactions.
 Expected maturities could differ from contractual maturities because the security issuers may have the right to prepay obligations without prepayment penalties.
 Table of Contents
 The Company reviews the marketable securities for impairment at each reporting period to determine if any of the securities have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value.
The Company considers factors, such as the length of time and extent to which the market value has been less than the cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, the Company’s intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis.
If the Company believes that an other-than-temporary decline in fair value has occurred, it writes down the investment to its fair value and recognizes the credit loss in earnings and the non-credit loss in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss.
There were no securities in an unrealized loss position as of March 31, 2019.
The aggregate fair value of the marketable securities in an unrealized loss position was $43.0 million as of September 30, 2018.
Aggregate unrealized losses for these securities were insignificant as of September 30, 2018 and are presented in the table above.
As of September 30, 2018, marketable securities in an unrealized loss position were comprised primarily of U.S. Treasury securities, corporate securities, and municipal securities.
The securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2018 were not considered other-than-temporarily impaired and, as such, the Company did not recognize impairment losses during the period then ended.
The unrealized losses were attributable to changes in interest rates that impacted the value of the investments.
 Cash equivalents of less than $0.1 million and $50.6 million, respectively, at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018 consist of money market funds and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in active markets.
Cash equivalents of less than $0.1 million at March 31, 2019 consist primarily of bank certificates of deposits with original maturities of less than 90 days and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
 Acquisition Completed in Fiscal Year 2019
 Acquisition of GENEWIZ
 On November 15, 2018, the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock of GENEWIZ Group (“GENEWIZ”), a leading global genomics service provider headquartered in South Plainfield, New Jersey.
GENEWIZ provides genomics services that enable research scientists to advance their discoveries within the pharmaceutical, academic, biotechnology, agriculture and other markets.
It provides gene sequencing and synthesis services for more than 4,000 institutional customers worldwide supported by their global network of laboratories spanning the United States, China, Japan, Germany and the United Kingdom.
This transaction added a new and innovative platform which the Company expects to leverage, along with its core capabilities, to add even more value to samples under the Company’s care.
 The total cash purchase price for the acquisition was $442.7 million, net of cash acquired, which included a working capital settlement of $0.4M.
The Company used the proceeds of the incremental loan described in Note 8, “Debt” to pay a portion of the purchase price.
 On the acquisition date, the Company paid $32.3 million to escrow accounts related to the satisfaction of the seller's indemnification obligations with respect to their representations and warranties and other indemnities.
The Company also retained an amount equal to $1.5 million as collateral for any adjustment shortfall based on the final merger consideration calculation.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the final merger consideration was calculated to be $4.0 million less than the merger consideration paid at closing.
To satisfy the shortfall, the Company reversed the $1.5 million liability associated with the holdback, received approval from the former shareholders to retain $0.7 million of funds the Company received on their behalf, and collected $1.8 million from the escrow accounts.
 The Company recorded the following assets acquired and liabilities assumed related to GENEWIZ at their fair values as of the acquisition date, from a market participant’s perspective (in thousands).
While the Company uses its best estimates and assumptions as part of the purchase price allocation process to value the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date, its estimates and assumptions are subject to refinement.
Fair value estimates are based on a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and rely heavily on estimates and assumptions.
The judgments used to determine the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities
 Table of Contents
assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact the Company’s results of operations.
The finalization of the assignment of fair values will be completed within one year.
 The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identifiable intangible assets include customer relationships (excess earnings method) of $125.4 million with a useful life of 14 years, completed technology (relief from royalty method) of $44.1 million with useful lives from 10 to 15 years and trademarks (relief from royalty method) of $19.0 million with a useful life of 13 years.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 13.3 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
 Goodwill of $236.8 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of the Company’s core technologies and offerings in the Life Sciences business.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, a $0.3 million measurement period adjustment was recorded related to the working capital settlement which increased goodwill.
 During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company made a measurement period adjustment in the amount of $0.7 million to Prepaid expenses and other current assets and $0.7 million to Accrued expenses and other current liabilities.
The adjustments had no impact on goodwill.
 The revenues and net loss from GENEWIZ recognized in the Company's consolidated results of operations were $32.8 million and $0.3 million, respectively for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The revenues and net income from GENEWIZ recognized in the Company’s consolidated results of operations were $49.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively for the reporting period since acquisition.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, and the period since acquisition, net income included $3.2 million and $4.8 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
The Company incurred $3.8 million in transaction costs with respect to the GENEWIZ acquisition during fiscal year 2018.
During the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, the Company incurred $0.1 million and $6.4 million, respectively, in transaction costs, which were recorded in "Selling, general and administrative" expenses within the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 The following unaudited pro forma information reflects our consolidated results of operations as if the acquisition had taken place on October 1, 2017.
The unaudited pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that we would have reported had the transaction actually occurred at the beginning of these periods nor is it necessarily indicative of future results.
The unaudited pro forma financial information does not reflect the impact of
 Table of Contents
future events that may occur after the acquisition, including, but not limited to, anticipated costs savings from synergies or other operational improvements (in thousands).
 The unaudited pro forma financial information presented in the table above has been adjusted to give effect to adjustments that are (1) directly related to the acquisition; (2) factually supportable; and (3) expect to have a continuing impact.
These adjustments include, but are not limited to, the application of our accounting policies, elimination of related party transactions, depreciation and amortization related to fair value adjustments to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and interest expense on acquisition related debt.
 Acquisitions Completed in Fiscal Year 2018
 Acquisition of Tec-Sem
 On April 6, 2018, the Company acquired approximately 93% of the outstanding capital stock of Tec-Sem Group AG (“Tec-Sem”), a Switzerland-based manufacturer of semiconductor fabrication automation equipment with a focus on reticle management.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company acquired the remaining 7% noncontrolling interest upon the completion of certain procedural steps.
The total cash payment to acquire the business was $15.6 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
The acquisition of Tec-Sem has expanded the Company’s contamination control solutions business within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
 Table of Contents
 The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identifiable intangible assets include completed technology (excess earnings method) of $8.4 million with a useful life of 10 years, backlog (excess earnings method) of $1.6 million with a useful life of 1 year, and customer relationships (distributor method) of $0.7 million with a useful life of 9 years.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 8.6 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
 Goodwill of $7.7 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of technical capabilities to the Company's existing contamination control solutions business.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and is not tax deductible.
 As part of the acquisition, the Company assumed all the assets and liabilities of Tec-Sem’s Swiss defined benefit plan, which covered substantially all its full-time employees.
At acquisition date, the plan was fully funded for each employee’s pension contribution plus an expected rate of return equal to the statutory discount rate.
Total plan assets and plan liability were $5.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, at acquisition date.
The Company recorded a liability of $2.8 million for the unfunded projected benefit obligation related to each plan participant’s future services.
 The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date.
The revenues and net income from Tec-Sem included in the Company's consolidated results for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $5.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
The revenues and net income from Tec-Sem included in the Company's consolidated results for the six months ended March 31, 2019 were $15.1 million and $2.6 million, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the net income included $0.9 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
During the six months ended March 31, 2019, the net income included $0.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories and $1.8 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
 The escrow at closing had a balance of $2.6 million which consisted of $1.8 million related to satisfaction of the sellers' indemnification obligations with respect to their representations and warranties and other indemnities.
The remaining $0.8 million of the escrow balance is related to a performance obligation that the Company assumed at the acquisition date for the transfer of non-core wafer stocker technology to an unrelated third party.
The Company collected $0.4 million from the escrow during current quarter related to the delivery of the technology.
 The Company did not present a pro forma information summary for its consolidated results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 as if the acquisition of Tec-Sem occurred on October 1, 2016 because such results were immaterial.
 Table of Contents
 Acquisition of 4titude Limited
 On October 5, 2017, the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited (“4titude”), a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications.
The acquisition of 4titude will expand the Company’s existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The aggregate purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.8 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.4 million.
 The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identified intangible assets include customer relationships (excess earnings method) of $21.4 million with a useful life of 10 years, completed technology (relief from royalty method) of $5.2 million with a useful life of 13 years, backlog (excess earnings method) of $0.4 million with a useful life of 1 year and trademarks (excess earnings method) of $0.2 million with a useful life of 1 year.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 10.4 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
 At the closing of the acquisition of 4titude, a cash payment of $0.4 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
The escrow was related to potential working capital adjustments and the sellers’ satisfaction of general representations and warranties.
 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Goodwill is primarily the result of expected synergies from combining the operations of 4titude with the Company’s operations and is not deductible for tax purposes.
 The operating results of 4titude have been reflected in the results of operations for the Brooks Life Sciences segment from the date of the acquisition.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, revenue and net income from 4titude recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $4.7 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
During the six months ended March 31, 2019, revenue and net loss from 4titude recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $8.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, revenue and net loss from 4titude recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $4.3 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, revenue and net loss from 4titude recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $7.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the net loss included non-recurring charges of $1.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories.
During the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, the net loss included recurring charges of $0.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
During the
 Table of Contents
three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the net loss included recurring charges of $1.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
 During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company incurred $0.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively, in non-recurring transaction costs with respect to the 4titude acquisition, which were recorded in "Selling, general and administrative" expenses within the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
There were no transaction costs related to the 4titude acquisition during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019.
 The Company did not present a pro forma information summary for its consolidated results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 as if the acquisition of 4titude occurred on October 1, 2016 because such results were immaterial.
 Other
 On April 20, 2018, the Company acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation (“BioSpeciMan”), a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
BioSpeciMan, founded in 2002, provides temperature controlled biological sample storage services to an attractive mix of pharma, biotech and contract lab customers.
This acquisition has expanded customer relationships and geographic reach within its growing sample management storage services business in the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The total cash payment made by the Company was $5.2 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
  The Company allocated the purchase price of $5.2 million based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date, which included $0.3 million of accounts receivable, $2.6 million of customer relationships, $2.7 million of goodwill and $0.7 million of assumed liabilities.
The Company applied the excess earnings method, a variation of the income approach to determine the fair value of the customer relationship intangible asset.
The purchase price allocation was based on a preliminary valuation which is subject to further adjustments within the measurement period when additional information becomes available.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.
 At the acquisition date, a cash payment of $0.5 million was held back for potential working capital adjustments and the sellers' satisfaction of general representations and warranties.
These holdback payments were ascribed to the purchase price.
 The operating results of the acquisition have been reflected in the results of operations for the Brooks Life Sciences segment from the date of the acquisition.
The Company did not present a pro forma information summary for its consolidated results of operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 as if the acquisition of BioSpeciMan occurred on October 1, 2016 because such results were immaterial.
 6.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
 Goodwill represents the excess of net book value over the estimated fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a reporting unit.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more often if impairment indicators are present at the reporting unit level.
If events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce fair values of the reporting units below their carrying values, goodwill will be evaluated for impairment between annual tests.
No triggering events indicating goodwill impairment occurred during the six months ended March 31, 2019.
Please refer to Note 7, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the
 Table of Contents
2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the goodwill impairment testing performed during fiscal year 2018.
 During the six months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $236.8 million primarily related to the acquisition of GENEWIZ.
Please refer to Note 5 "Acquisitions" for further information on this transaction.
 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $17.2 million and $11.1 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
 Table of Contents
 7.
Line of Credit
 The Company maintains a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the credit agreement.
The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022 and expires no less than 90 days prior to the term loan expiration.
The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.
 On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million Senior Secured Term Loan Facility (the “term loan”) with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (collectively, the “lenders”).
Coincident with the entry into the term loan agreement, the Company amended certain terms and conditions of the credit agreement and entered into an arrangement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Based on the amended terms of the credit agreement, the line of credit continues to provide for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability.
Borrowing base availability under the amended line of credit excludes collateral related to fixed assets and is redetermined periodically based on certain percentage of certain eligible U.S. assets, including accounts receivable and inventory.
The sub-limits for letters of credit were reduced to $7.5 million under the amended terms of the credit agreement.
All outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement are guaranteed by the Company and BioStorage Technologies, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiary, and subordinated to the obligations under the term loan which are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor, other than accounts receivable and inventory.
Please refer to Note 8, “Debt”, for further information on the term loan transaction.
 There were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit as of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining line of credit financing as deferred financing costs which are presented within "Other assets" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Deferred financing costs were $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
Such costs are amortized over the term of the related financing arrangement and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The line of credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, a financial covenant and affirmative and negative covenants as well as events of default.
The Company was in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
 Term Loans
 On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million term loan with the lenders.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
On November 15, 2018, the Company entered into an incremental Amendment (the “Amendment”) to the existing credit agreement.
Under the Amendment, the Company obtained an incremental term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million.
The proceeds of the incremental loan were used to finance a portion of the purchase price for the Company’s acquisition of GENEWIZ.
The term loan was issued at $340.5 million, or 97.3% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $9.5 million, or 2.7%, which represented financing cost of the loan.
Except as provided in the Amendment, the incremental loan is subject to the same terms and conditions as set forth in the existing credit agreement.
The loan principal amount may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus any additional amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.
 On February 15, 2019, the Company syndicated the incremental term loan to a group of new lenders which met the criteria of a debt extinguishment.
The Company wrote off the carrying value of the incremental term loan of $340.1 million as of February 15, 2019 and recorded the syndicated incremental term loan at its present value for $349.1 million and a loss on debt extinguishment for $9.1 million.
The syndicated loan was issued at $345.2 million, or 98.9% of its par value resulting in a discount of $4.0 million which represented financing costs which are presented as a reduction of the term loan principal balance in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets and will be accreted over the
 Table of Contents
life of the loan.
Except as provided in the Amendment for increase of interest rates, the new loan is subject to the same terms and conditions as set forth in the incremental term loan.
 Under the terms of the Amendment, the Company may elect that the borrowings comprising the incremental loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (a) the Alternate Base Rate (the “ABR”) plus 1.50%; or (b) the Adjusted LIBOR plus 2.50%.
ABR is equal to the highest of (a) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%, (b) the prime rate, or (c) one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.00%.
The LIBOR is equal to the rate for eurodollar deposits in the London interbank market for a period of one, two, three or six months, in each case selected by the Company.
“Adjusted LIBOR” is the LIBOR as adjusted for statutory reserve requirements for eurodollar liabilities.
On February 15, 2019, in connection with the syndication of the incremental term loan, the Company entered into a second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the existing credit agreement.
Under the Second Amendment, interest rate increased 0.5%.
The Company may elect that the borrowings comprising the incremental loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (a) the Alternate Base Rate (the “ABR”) plus 2.00%; or (b) the Adjusted LIBOR plus 3.00%.
 The Company’s obligations under the term loan are also guaranteed by BioStorage Technologies, Inc. as the guarantor, subject to the terms and conditions of the term loan agreement.
The Company and the guarantor granted the lenders a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor to secure the repayment of the term loan.
 The term loan matures and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024.
The principal is payable in installments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st of each year, commencing on March 31, 2018, with any remaining amount of principal becoming due and payable on the maturity date.
All accrued and unpaid interest on Borrowings shall be due on the last day of each interest period elected by the Company for such Borrowings, except for interest periods of more than three months in which case all accrued and unpaid interest shall be due and payable every three months.
 Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, the Company may redeem the term loan at any time at its option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the term loan agreement.
The Company would be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amount then outstanding upon occurrence of certain events, including (i) net proceeds received from the sale or other disposition of the Company’s or guarantor’ assets, subject to certain limitations, (ii) casualty and condemnation proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor, subject to certain exceptions, (iii) net proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor from the issuance of debt or disqualified capital stock after October 4, 2017.
Commencing on December 31, 2018, the Company will be required to make principal payments equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement.
Such prepayments are equal to 50% of the preceding year excess cash flow amount reduced by voluntary prepayments of the term loan, subject to certain limitations.
 The Deferred financing costs are accreted over the term of the loan using the effective interest rate method and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
At March 31, 2019, deferred financing costs were $6.1 million.
 The term loan agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default.
If any of the events of default occur and are not waived or cured within applicable grace periods, any unpaid amounts under the term loan agreement will bear an annual interest rate at 2.00% above the rate otherwise applicable under the terms and conditions of such agreement.
The term loan agreement does not contain financial maintenance covenants.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.
 In connection with the GENEWIZ acquisition, we assumed three five-year term loans for a total of $3.3 million and two one-year short term loans for a total of RMB 22 million or $3.2 million.
The three five-year term loans were initiated during 2016 and mature in 2021.
The principal payments are payable in eight installments equal to 12.5% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on December 14th and June 14th of each year, commencing in 2017.
The three five-year term loans were secured to fund equipment payments and the interest rates were equal to the LIBOR plus 3.1%.
The two one-year term loans were borrowed to fund operations.
Both of the one-year term loans were initiated in
 Table of Contents
2018 and mature in 2019.
The principal payments are due at the maturity date.
The interest rates of these two loans were 4.56% and 4.35%.
There is no deferred financing costs related to either the five-year term loans or the one-year term loans.
At March 31, 2019, we had an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $2.1 million and $1.8 million for the three five-year term loans and two one-year short term loans, respectively.
 During the six months ended March 31, 2019, the weighted average stated interest rate paid on all outstanding debt was 5.2%.
During the six months ended March 31, 2019, the Company incurred aggregate interest expense of $13.3 million in connection with the borrowings, including $0.9 million of deferred financing costs amortization.
 As of March 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of the outstanding principal balance of the debt no our balance sheet approximates its carrying value.
The fair value was determined based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for this term loan or a similar loan instrument.
 Capital Lease Obligations
 The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $1.0 million and $6.9 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019.
The tax benefit for three months was driven by U.S. losses during the period and includes $0.4 million of stock compensation windfalls.
These benefits were slightly offset by the tax provision on foreign earnings during the period and a discrete expense related to interest accruing on uncertain tax positions.
The tax benefit for the six months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily driven by discrete benefits related to stock compensation
 Table of Contents
windfalls of $4.1 million for tax deductions that exceeded the associated compensation expense, $1.4 million of tax benefits related to the remeasurement of net U.S. deferred tax assets due to state tax rate changes, and a $1.1 million transition tax reduction.
These discrete benefits were slightly increased by the tax benefit recorded on losses during the period.
 The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $54.5 million and $55.2 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
The tax benefit recorded during each period was primarily driven by a discrete benefit due to the reversal of a valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during the three months ended March 31, 2018 in the amount of $58.0 million.
The tax benefit for the six months ended March 31, 2018 included $0.7 million of tax benefits related to the re-measurement of net U.S. deferred tax liabilities to account for the reduced 21 percent statutory federal income tax rate.
This benefit for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 was partially offset by the tax provisions related to foreign income.
 During 2018, the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations on the federal toll charge and various other aspects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
The Company finalized its analysis of the toll charge and related liabilities, including uncertain tax positions, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 pursuant to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
As a result of the new guidance issued and additional work to complete the calculation of its federal toll charge, the Company reduced its provisional accrual for federal, state and foreign taxes by net $1.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
In addition, the Company also assessed its uncertain tax positions related to these taxes and accrued income and determined no tax reserves were required.
 The Company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assesses the need for a valuation allowance on an annual and quarterly basis.
The Company evaluates the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis while performing this analysis.
The Company evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of the valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.
The remaining portion of the Company’s U.S. valuation allowance is related to the realizability of certain state tax credits and net operating loss carry-forwards.
The Company continues to maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in certain foreign tax-paying components as of March 31, 2019.
 The Company maintains liabilities for uncertain tax positions.
These liabilities involve judgment and estimation and are monitored based on the best information available.
The Company recognizes interest related to unrecognized benefits as a component of the income tax benefit.
The Company recognized interest expense related to its unrecognized tax benefits of $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2019.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018 the statute of limitations lapsed on an uncertain tax positions in a foreign jurisdiction which resulted in a $0.3 million reduction in the gross unrecognized tax benefits that impacted the effective tax rate.
 The Company is subject to U.S. federal income tax and state, local and international income taxes in various jurisdictions.
The amount of income taxes paid is subject to the Company’s interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which it files tax returns.
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to income tax audits in various global jurisdictions in which it operates.
The years subject to examination vary for the U.S. and international jurisdictions, with the earliest tax year being 2011.
Based on the outcome of these examinations or the expiration of statutes of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the related unrecognized tax benefits could change from those recorded in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company currently anticipates that it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $0.1 million within the next twelve months.
 Table of Contents
 10.
Other Balance Sheet Information
 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $16.1 million and $15.0 million, respectively, at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
 At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $7.5 million and $5.6 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the six months ended March 31, 2019, the Company capitalized direct costs of $1.0 million associated with the development of software for its internal use.
 The Company establishes reserves for estimated costs of product warranties based on historical information.
Product warranty reserves are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized, and retrofit accruals are recorded at the time retrofit programs are established.
The Company’s warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure and supplier warranties on parts delivered to the Company.
 Table of Contents
 The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the closing price of the Company’s common stock quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market on the date of grant.
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period.
Additionally, the Company assesses the likelihood of achieving the performance goals against previously established performance targets in accordance with the Company’s long-term equity incentive plan for stock-based awards that vest upon or after the satisfaction of these goals.
 Among the total restricted stock units granted, 28,493 shares were granted to the employees who belong to the discontinued operation during the six months ended March 31, 2018.
No shares were granted to the employees who belong to the discontinued operation during the six months ended March 31, 2019.
 Time-Based Grants
 Restricted stock units granted with a required service period typically have three-year vesting schedules in which one-third of awards vest at the first anniversary of the grant date, one-third vest at the second anniversary of the grant date and one-third vest at the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to the award holders meeting service requirements.
 Stock Grants
 The stock awards granted to the members of the Company’s Board of Directors include restricted stock awards and deferred restricted stock units.
 Table of Contents
 Certain members of the Board of Directors have elected to defer receiving their annual awards of restricted stock units and related quarterly dividends until they attain a certain age or cease to provide services as the Company’s Board members.
Restricted stock awards granted in fiscal years 2017 and 2018 are subject to a one-year vesting period, while the restricted stock awards granted in fiscal year 2019 vested upon the grant date.
 Performance-Based Grants
 Performance-based restricted stock units are earned based on the achievement of performance criteria established by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and approved by the Board of Directors.
The criteria for performance-based awards have threshold, target and maximum performance goals.
 Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2019, 2018 and 2017 allow participants to earn 100% of restricted stock units if the Company’s performance meets its target goal for each applicable financial metric, and up to a maximum of 200% if the Company’s performance for such metrics meets or exceeds the maximum or stretch goal.
Performance below the threshold financial metric results in award forfeiture.
Performance goals for each plan will be measured over a three-year period for each plan and at the end of the period.
Around the third anniversary of each plan’s grant date, the Company’s Board of Directors determines the number of units earned for participants who continue to meet the service requirements on the vest date.
 Restricted Stock Unit Activity
 The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $29.73 and $25.41, respectively.
The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $30.45 and $33.61, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $3.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $31.1 million and $19.1 million, respectively.
During the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company remitted $14.2 million and $6.3 million, respectively, collected from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.
Such proceeds collected and remitted were insignificant during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
 As of March 31, 2019, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $32.4 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 1.8 years.
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower.
There were 59,549 and 66,785 shares, respectively, purchased by employees under the employee stock purchase plan during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
 Table of Contents
 12.
Earnings per Share
 During the three and the six months ended March 31, 2019, antidilutive restricted stock units of 4,599 and 8,751, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
During the three and the six months ended March 31, 2018, antidilutive restricted stock units of 190,517 and 190,266, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
 13.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
 Revenue Recognition (Performance Obligations)
   ·    Products, including sales of tool automation and automated cold sample management systems, atmospheric and vacuum robots, contamination control solutions, as well as consumables and spare parts.
   ·    Services, including repairs, upgrades, diagnostic support, installation, as well as biological sample services such as DNA sequencing, gene synthesis, molecular biology, bioinformatics, biological sample storage and other support services.
 The company recognizes revenue for the transfer of such promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when or as the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligation
 Table of Contents
   ·    Identify the contract with a customer.
Contracts are accounted for when approval and commitment has been received from both parties, the rights of each party are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of the consideration to which the Company is entitled is probable.
Contracts are generally evidenced through receipt of an approved purchase order or execution of a binding arrangement.
Within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment, contracts are typically short-term with the exception of service-type warranty contracts, which generally have a stated contract term that is greater than one year.
Within the Brooks Life Sciences segment, contracts are both short and long-term.
Long-term contracts within this segment relate to the sale of products with attached service-type warranty contracts that generally have a stated contract term that is greater than one year.
Contracts within both operating segments may contain acceptance provisions where the Company is required to obtain technical acceptance from the customer upon completion of installation services and evidence of the systems functional performance within the customer’s operating environment.
The Company has concluded that acceptance criteria within its contracts can be objectively evaluated and will not impact the Company’s transfer of control assessment under ASC 606.
   ·    Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
Performance obligations include the sale of products and services.
Certain customer arrangements related to the sale of automated cold sample management systems and contamination control solution products generally include more than one performance obligation and may include a combination of goods and or services, such as products with installation services or service-type warranty obligations.
These contracts include multiple promises and as a result, the Company is required to evaluate each promise and determine whether the promise qualifies as a performance obligation within the contract.
Contracts may contain the option to acquire additional products or services at defined prices.
The Company reviews the pricing of these options to determine whether the option would exist independently of the current contract.
If the pricing of contract options provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the current contract, the Company accounts for the option as a separate performance obligation.
   ·    Determine the transaction price.
The transaction price of the Company’s contracts with its customer is generally fixed, based on the amounts to be contractually billed to the customer.
Certain contracts may contain variable consideration in the form of customer allowances and rebates that consist primarily of retrospective volume based discounts and other incentive programs.
Variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and included in the transaction price if it is probable that a subsequent change in the estimate would not result in a significant revenue reversal.
The period between transfer of control of the performance obligations within a customer contract and timing of payment is generally within one year.
As a result, the Company’s contracts typically do not include significant financing components.
   ·    Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
For customer contracts that contain more than one performance obligation, the Company allocates the total transaction consideration to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation within the contract.
The Company relies on either observable standalone sales or an expected cost plus margin approach to determine the standalone selling price of offerings, depending on the nature of the performance obligation.
Performance obligations whose standalone selling price is estimated using an expected cost plus margin approach relate to the sale of customized automated cold sample management systems and service-type warranties within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
   ·    Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations by transferring a product or service either at a point in time or over time, when the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligation has occurred.
Control is evidenced by the
 Table of Contents
customer’s ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all the remaining benefits from the performance obligation.
Revenue from third-party sales for which the Company does not meet the criteria for gross revenue recognition is recognized on a net basis.
All other revenue is recognized on a gross basis.
The Company excludes from the transaction price all sales taxes assessed by governmental authorities and as a result, revenue is presented net of tax.
 Revenue from the sales of certain products that involve significant customization, which include primarily automated cold sample management systems is recognized over time as the asset created by the Company’s performance does not have alternative use to the Company and an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date is present.
The Company recognizes revenue as work progresses based on a percentage of actual labor hours incurred on the project to-date and total estimated labor hours expected to be incurred on the project.
The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment.
The Company has concluded that using the percentage of labor hours incurred to estimated labor hours needed to complete the project most appropriately depicts the Company’s efforts towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
The Company develops profit estimates for long-term contracts based on total revenue expected to be generated from the project and total costs anticipated to be incurred in the project.
These estimates are based on a number of factors, including the degree of required product customization and the work required to be able to install the product in the customer’s existing environment, as well as the Company’s historical experience, project plans and an assessment of the risks and uncertainties inherent in the contract related to implementation delays or performance issues that may or may not be within the Company’s control.
The Company estimates a loss on a contract by comparing total estimated contract revenue to the total estimated contract costs and recognizes a loss during the period in which it becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated.
The Company reviews profit estimates for long-term contracts during each reporting period and revises the estimate based on changes in circumstances.
Revenue for certain arrangements that involve significant product customization but do not provide the customer with an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date are recognized at a point in time, upon completion or substantial completion of the project, provided transfer of control has occurred.
The project is considered substantially complete when the Company receives acceptance from the customer and remaining tasks are perfunctory or inconsequential and in control of the Company.
Generally, the terms of long-term contracts provide for progress billings based on completion of milestones or other defined phases of work.
In certain instances, payments collected from customers in advance of recognizing the related revenue are recorded and presented as contract liabilities within Deferred revenue on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Additionally, due to certain billing constraints within contracts, the customer may retain a portion of the contract price until completion of the contract.
In these contracts, revenue recognized may exceed billings, which the Company presents as a contract asset on the balance sheet, which is included within the Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 Table of Contents
 Disaggregated Revenue
 The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers in a manner that depicts how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
The Company disaggregates revenue based on the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligations, the geographic location in which customer orders are placed and by reporting unit.
 Table of Contents
 Contract Balances
 Accounts Receivable, Net.
Accounts receivable represent rights to consideration in exchange for products or services that have been transferred by the Company, when payment is unconditional and only the passage of time is required before payment is due.
Accounts receivable do not bear interest and are recorded at the invoiced amount.
The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts representing its best estimate of probable credit losses related to its existing accounts receivable and their net realizable value.
The Company determines the allowance for doubtful accounts based on a number of factors, including an evaluation of customer credit worthiness, the age of the outstanding receivables, economic trends and historical experience.
Accounts receivable, net were $163.7 million and $125.2 million at March 31, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
 Contract Assets.
Contract assets represent rights to consideration in exchange for products or services that have been transferred by the Company, when payment is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These amounts typically relate to contracts within the Brooks Life Sciences segment where the right to payment is not present until completion of the contract or the achievement of specified milestones and the value of the products or services transferred exceed this constraint.
Contract assets are classified as current.
Contract asset balances which are included within Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, were $4.1 million and $8.2 million at March 31, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
 Deferred Commissions.
Deferred commissions represent a direct and incremental cost of obtaining a contract.
These amounts primarily relate to sales commissions within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and are deferred and amortized over a 60 month period, which represents the average period of contract performance.
The Company classifies deferred commissions as noncurrent as the original amortization period of this asset is greater than one year.
Deferred commissions balances are included within Other assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Deferred commissions were $1.1 million and $1.5 million at March 31, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
The Company recorded $0.2 million and $0.4 million, respectively of amortization expense related to deferred commissions for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019.
 Contract Liabilities.
Contract liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to transfer products or services to a customer for which consideration has been received, or for which an amount of consideration is due from the customer.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a net basis at the contract level, depending on the contracts position at the end of each reporting period.
Contract liabilities are included within Deferred revenue on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Contract liabilities were $31.2 million and $28.7 million at March 31, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
Revenue recognized from the contract liability balance at October 1, 2018 was $11.8 million and $23.9 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019.
 Cost to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract
 The Company capitalizes sales commissions when incurred if they are (i) incremental costs of obtaining a contract, (ii) expected to be recovered and (iii) have an expected amortization period that is greater than one year.
As part of the Company’s cumulative effect adjustment, incremental costs associated with obtaining a contract were capitalized and have been classified as deferred commissions within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
These amounts
 Table of Contents
primarily relate to sales commissions within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and are being amortized over a 60 month period, which represents the average period of contract performance.
The Company did not capitalize any sales commissions during the three or six months ended March 31, 2019 as the amount of sales commissions that qualified for capitalization during the reporting period was insignificant.
Sales commissions incurred during the reporting period have been expensed as incurred.
These costs are recorded within selling, general, and administration expenses.
The Company has concluded that none of its costs incurred in fulfillment of customer contracts meet the capitalization criteria.
The Company will account for shipping and handling activities as fulfillment activities and recognize the associated expense when transfer of control of the product has transferred to the customer.
 The Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment provides a variety of products, services and solutions that enable improved throughput and yield in controlled operating environments, as well as an extensive range of support services.
The solutions include atmospheric and vacuum robots, robotic modules, tool automation systems, contamination control of wafer carrier front opening unified pods and reticle management.
The support services include repair services, diagnostic support services, and installation services in support of the products, which enable the customers to maximize process tool uptime and productivity.
This segment also provides end-user customers with spare parts and productivity enhancement upgrades to maximize tool productivity.
 The Brooks Life Sciences segment provides comprehensive life cycle sample management solutions to life science and bioscience customers including complete end-to-end “cold chain of custody” solutions and a variety of sample-based lab services such as genomic sequencing and synthesis to advance scientific research and support drug development.
The segment’s product offerings include automated cold sample management systems for compound and biological sample storage, equipment for sample preparation and handling, consumables, and informatics that help customers manage samples throughout their research discovery and development work flows.
The segment’s service offerings include sample storage, genomic sequencing, genomic synthesis, lab processing services, lab analysis, and other support services provided to a wide range of life science customers, including pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, biobanks and research institutes.
 Revenue and adjusted operating income (loss) are two key metrics used by the CODM when assessing operating results and management performance as resources are allocated to each of the operating segments.
The adjusted operating income (loss) for each segment includes selling, general and administrative expenses directly attributable to the segment, and corporate allocations for general and administrative support.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets (excluding completed technology), restructuring and other charges, pension settlement, in-process research and development, and other unallocated corporate expenses are excluded from the segments’ adjusted operating income (loss).
Please refer to Note 20, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K for further information on the operating segments’ description and accounting policies.
 In conjunction with the acquisition of GENEWIZ during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the Company reassessed Brooks segment reporting structure and determined that GENEWIZ represents a separate operating segment based on ASC 280.
As permitted by ASC 280 Segment Reporting, the Company assessed and elected to aggregate the Sample Management operating segment with the GENEWIZ operating segment as a single reportable segment titled Brooks Life Sciences.
We have aggregated the two operating segments as one reporting segment based on similarities in long-term forecasted economic characteristics, particularly adjusted operating income, similarity in services they offer, the customers they serve, the nature of their service delivery models, and their regulatory environments.
The Company believes that the aggregated presentation is more useful to investors and other financial users.
Management formally assesses the long-term financial outlook of its operating segments on an annual basis as part of its strategic planning process and more frequently on an informal basis.
The customer bases of the operating segments overlap, serving life science and bioscience customers in the pharmaceutical, bio-technology, academic and government institutions.
Both operating segments, provide services relating to the biological samples needed to advance non-clinical and clinical
 Table of Contents
research, serving scientific and business operations functions.
In a typical customer workflow, a biological sample is collected, processed and analyzed with results interpreted and used to make scientific judgements.
Critical or valuable samples are then annotated and stored for many years in environments where they can be easily retrieved for additional study.
The operating segments provide services across this workflow.
Both operating segments services meeting standards of Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) set forth by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
 Table of Contents
 The Company had no customer that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, during each of the three and six months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
As of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables.
 For purposes of determining the percentage of revenue generated from any of the Company’s original equipment manufacturer (the "OEM") customers, the Company does not include revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers who in turn sell to the OEMs.
If the Company included revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers supporting the Company’s OEM customers, the percentage of the Company’s total revenue derived from certain OEM customers would be higher.
 16.
Commitments and Contingencies
 Letters of Credit
 As of March 31, 2019, the Company had approximately $1.3 million of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations.
These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from our customers in the event that the product is not delivered, or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms.
These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if the Company fails to meet certain contractual requirements.
None of these obligations were called during the three months ended March 31, 2019, and the Company currently does not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.
 Purchase Commitments
 The Company had non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $88.3 million as of March 31, 2019.
 Table of Contents
 Contingencies
 The Company is subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.
The Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings or in certain instances provide reasonable ranges of potential losses.
However, as of the date of this report, the Company believes that none of these claims will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations.
In the event of unexpected subsequent developments and given the inherent unpredictability of these legal proceedings, there can be no assurance that the Company’s assessment of any claim will reflect the ultimate outcome, and an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods.
 Dividend
 On April 26, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on June 28, 2019 to common stockholders of record as of June 7, 2019.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on the Company’s actual cash flows from operations, its financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
Future dividend declarations, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, will be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
 Table of Contents
 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings
 We are subject to various legal proceedings, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.
We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of such legal proceedings or in certain instances provide reasonable ranges of potential losses.
However, as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q, we believe that none of these claims will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
In the event of unexpected subsequent developments and given the inherent unpredictability of these legal proceedings, there can be no assurance that our assessment of any claim will reflect the ultimate outcome and an adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time-to-time, have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods.
 Item 1A.
Risk Factors
 You should carefully review and consider the information regarding certain factors that could materially affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations set forth under Item 1A.
Risk Factors in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
We may disclose changes to risk factors or additional factors from time to time in our future filings with the SEC.
