 Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
   ·    Overview.
This section provides a general description of our business and operating segments as well as a brief discussion and overall analysis of our business and financial performance, including key developments affecting the Company during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
   ·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.
This section discusses accounting policies and estimates that require us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in their application.
We believe these accounting policies and estimates are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results.
   ·    Results of Operations.
This section provides an analysis of our financial results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
   ·    Liquidity and Capital Resources.
This section provides an analysis of our liquidity and changes in cash flows as well as a discussion of available borrowings and contractual commitments.
 You should read the MD&A in conjunction with our unaudited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In addition to historical information, the MD&A contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
You should read “Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements” below for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations.
 Information Related to Forward-Looking Statements
 This Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q contains statements that are, or may be considered to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
All statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs or expectations, are forward-looking statements.
These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “continue,” “likely” or similar statements or variations of such terms.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to our future revenue, margins, costs, earnings, profitability, product development, demand, acceptance and market share, competitiveness, market opportunities and performance, levels of research and development, the success of our marketing, sales and service efforts, outsourced activities, operating expenses, anticipated manufacturing, customer and technical requirements, the ongoing viability of the solutions that we offer and our customers’ success, tax expenses, our management’s plans and objectives for our current and future operations and business focus, the expected benefits and other statements relating to our divestures and acquisitions, our adoption of the newly issued accounting guidance, the levels of customer spending,
 Table of Contents
general economic conditions, the sufficiency of financial resources to support future operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions.
Such statements are based on current expectations and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, our performance or our achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such factors include the Risk Factors which are set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, or the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and which are incorporated herein by reference.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.
We do not undertake any obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
Precautionary statements made herein should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
Any additional precautionary statements made in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K should be read as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements whenever they appear in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
 Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q to "we", "us", "our" and "the Company" refer to Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
 OVERVIEW
 In the life sciences sample-based services market, we utilize our core competencies and capabilities in automation and cryogenics to provide comprehensive bio-sample management solutions to a broad range of end markets within the life sciences industry.
Our offerings include automated ultra-cold storage freezers, consumable sample storage containers, instruments which assist in the workflow of sample management, on-site and off-site full sample management services, gene sequencing services and gene synthesis services.
We expect the life sciences sample
 Table of Contents
management market to remain one of our principal markets for our product and service offerings and provide favorable opportunities for the growth of our overall business.
Over the past several years, we have acquired and developed essential capabilities required to strategically address the sample management needs across multiple end markets within the life sciences industry.
In October 2017, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited, or 4titude, a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications.
The acquisition has expanded our existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
In April 2018, we acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, or BioSpeciMan, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
The acquisition has expanded customer relationships and geographic reach within our growing sample management storage services business.
On November 15, 2018, we acquired GENEWIZ Group, or GENEWIZ, a leading global genomics service provider headquartered in South Plainfield, New Jersey.
GENEWIZ is a global leader in genomics services that enable research scientists to advance their discoveries within the pharmaceutical, academic, biotechnology, agriculture and other markets.
GENEWIZ provides gene sequencing and synthesis services for more than 4,000 institutional customers worldwide supported by their global network of laboratories spanning the United States, China, Japan, Germany and the United Kingdom.
This transaction will add a new and innovative platform which we expect to leverage, along with our core capabilities, to add even more value to samples under our care.
GENEWIZ is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Please refer to Note 5, “Acquisitions” in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q for further information on these transactions.
Since entering the life sciences industry, we have also strengthened and broadened our product portfolio and market reach by investing in internal product development and sales and marketing infrastructure.
We expect to continue investing in research and development and making strategic acquisitions and other investments with the objective of expanding our offerings in the life sciences sample management market.
 Business and Financial Performance
 Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2017
 Results of Operations- Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 increased to $179.4 million, or by 26%, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin was 40.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 38.1% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, which resulted in an increase in gross profit of $17.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the corresponding period of the fiscal year 2018.
Operating expenses were $66.7 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $49.3 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $17.4 million.
Operating income was $5.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 as compared to $4.9 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Income from continuing operations was $6.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to $1.6 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $4.6 million was primarily attributable to an increase in the tax benefit of $5.2 million compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
 December 31, 2018 Compared to September 30, 2018
 Cash Flows and Liquidity- Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $138.3 million at December 31, 2018 as compared to $251.2 million at September 30, 2018.
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $112.9 million was primarily attributable to net cash outflows of $445.2 million to acquire GENEWIZ, cash dividends paid of $7.2 million and capital expenditures of $3.6 million, partially offset by cash inflows from proceeds received from the amendment to our existing term loan of $340.5 million, proceeds from the sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million and net cash inflows from operating activities of $6.3 million.
The $6.3 million of cash generated from operating activities during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was comprised primarily of earnings of $21.5 million, including net income of $14.4 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $7.1 million, partially offset by uses of cash of $15.2 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions.
Please refer to the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section below for a detailed discussion of our liquidity and changes in cash flows for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
 Table of Contents
 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
 Our unaudited consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP.
The preparation of the interim consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
We evaluate our estimates on an ongoing basis, including those related to accounts receivable, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets other than goodwill, long-lived assets, derivative financial instruments, deferred income taxes, warranty obligations, revenue recognized using the percentage of completion method, pension obligations and stock-based compensation expense.
We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
We evaluate current and anticipated worldwide economic conditions, both in general and specifically in relation to the semiconductor and life science industries, that serve as a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily determinable based on information from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions that could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
 For further information with regard to our significant accounting policies and estimates, please refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q and in the Notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
 For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements applicable to our unaudited consolidated financial statements, please refer to Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the Notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 "Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2017
 Revenue
 We reported revenue of $179.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, compared to $142.6 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $36.8 million, or 26%.
We reported revenue growth in both the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted new accounting guidance for recognizing revenue on a modified retrospective basis.
The difference in reported revenue in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the standard was a net decrease of $0.4 million.
 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported revenue of $112.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to $95.2 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $17.5 million, or 18%.
The increase was primarily driven by increases in sales of system automation products, semiconductor services and contamination control systems, partially offset by a decline in sales of robotic automation products.
Additionally, the acquisition of Tec-Sem contributed incremental revenue of $9.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The semiconductor markets are cyclical and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter.
Demand for our Brooks Semiconductor Solution Group products is affected by these cycles.
The difference in reported revenue in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net increase of $0.4 million.
 Table of Contents
 Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported revenue of $66.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to $47.4 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $19.2 million, or 41%, was from internal growth of $2.6 million, principally in sample storage services, automated storage systems and related services and sample management services.
Additionally, the acquisitions of BioSpeciMan and GENEWIZ contributed incremental revenue of $16.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The difference in reported revenue in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net decrease of $0.8 million.
 Revenue generated outside the United States was $110.5 million, or 62% of total revenue, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to $90.7 million, or 64% of total revenue, for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
We had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue for each of the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
 Gross Margin
 We reported gross margins of 40.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to 38.1% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Gross margin increased in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment by 0.3 percentage points and in the Brooks Life Sciences segment by 6.0 percentage points in the 2019 period over the 2018 period.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $2.0 million of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.9 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 also included $0.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting, as compared to $1.2 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Excluding the purchasing accounting impact related to inventory step-up and the amortization of completed technology, gross margins expanded 1.9 percentage points during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The difference in reported gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net increase in gross profit of $0.1 million.
 Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported gross margins of 40.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 40.5% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase is driven by volume leverage of fixed costs partially offset by higher warranty expense.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $0.9 million of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.5 million incurred during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $0.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting.
There were no such charges during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Excluding the purchase accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 0.7 percentage points during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The difference in reported gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net increase in gross profit of $0.4 million.
 Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported gross margins of 39.3% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 33.2% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase was a result of volume leverage of fixed costs, the impact of higher margins of recent acquisitions, and improved margins on consumables and instruments, as well as sample management services.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $1.1 million of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.4 million incurred during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 also included $1.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting.
There were no such charges during the current period.
Excluding the purchasing accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins increased 4.4 percentage points for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The difference in reported gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was a net decrease in gross profit of $0.3 million.
 Table of Contents
 Research and Development
 Research and development expenses were $13.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $11.4 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The increase of $1.7 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 reflects greater investments in the 2019 period of $1.0 million within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and $0.8 million within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Higher research and development expenses during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period of prior fiscal year were primarily attributable new acquisitions and higher employee related costs.
 Selling, General and Administrative
 Amortization expense related primarily to customer relationships was $5.8 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $4.6 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Merger-related costs were $6.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $0.6 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
 Restructuring Charges
 Restructuring charges were nominal during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
There were no restructuring charges during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
 Non-Operating Income (Expenses)
 Interest income- During the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded interest income of $0.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, which represented income earned on our marketable securities.
 Interest expense- During the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded interest expense of $5.3 million and $2.2 million, respectively.
The increase in interest expense is due to interest on the $350.0 million incremental term loan secured in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 used to pay a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of GENEWIZ.
 Other expenses, net- During the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 we recorded other expenses, net of less than $0.1 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The $1.9 million decrease was primarily attributable to higher foreign currency exchange losses of $2.0 million recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the current year period.
 Income Tax Provision
 We recorded an income tax benefit of $5.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and an income tax benefit of $0.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The tax benefit for the three months ended December 31, 2018 was primarily driven by discrete benefits related to stock compensation windfalls of $3.7 million for tax deductions that exceeded the associated compensation expense, $1.4 million of tax benefits related to the remeasurement of net U.S. deferred tax assets due to state tax rate changes, and a $1.1 million transition tax reduction.
These discrete benefits were slightly offset by the tax provision on foreign earnings during the period.
 Table of Contents
 The tax benefit for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was primarily driven by discrete benefits related to the reduction of reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $0.3 million and $0.7 million of tax benefits related to the remeasurement of net U.S. deferred tax liabilities at the reduced 21 percent federal income tax rate.
These discrete benefits were slightly offset by the tax provision on foreign earnings during the period.
 During 2018, the Internal Revenue Service issued proposed regulations on the federal toll charge and various other aspects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
We finalized our analysis of the toll charge and related liabilities, including uncertain tax positions, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 pursuant to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
As a result of the new guidance issued and additional work to complete the calculation of our federal toll charge, we reduced our provisional accrual for federal, state and foreign taxes by net $1.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
In addition, we also assessed our uncertain tax positions related to these taxes and accrued income and determined no tax reserves were required.
 We evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assess the need for a valuation allowance on an annual and quarterly basis.
We evaluate the profitability of each tax-paying component on a historic cumulative basis and a forward-looking basis in the course of performing this analysis.
We evaluated all positive and negative evidence in concluding it was appropriate to release the majority of valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during fiscal year 2018.
The remaining portion of our U.S. valuation allowance is related to the realizability of certain state tax credits and net operating loss carry-forwards.
We continue to maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in certain foreign tax-paying components as of December 31, 2018.
 During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we recorded $37.4 million of deferred tax liabilities in purchase accounting in connection with the acquisition of GENEWIZ.
Also, as a result of the acquisition, we recorded a $13.4 million reserve in purchase accounting for unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions taken by GENEWIZ in prior years.
 As of December 31, 2018, we have evaluated all relevant information related to U.S. tax reform under the allowable period pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 and have decided to maintain our indefinite reinvestment assertion.
Based on this we have not provided income taxes on the outside basis differences of our foreign subsidiaries.
We continue to expect our foreign earnings to be reinvested in foreign operations and acquisitions.
We have not accrued foreign withholding tax costs on unremitted earnings.
 We maintain liabilities for uncertain tax positions.
These liabilities involve judgment and estimation and are monitored based on the best information available.
We recognize interest related to unrecognized benefits as a component of the income tax benefit, of which $0.1 million was recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017 the statute of limitations lapsed on an uncertain tax positions in a foreign jurisdiction which resulted in a $0.3 million reduction in the gross unrecognized tax benefits that impacted the effective tax rate.
 We are subject to U.S. federal income tax and state, local and international income taxes in various jurisdictions.
The amount of income taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we file tax returns.
In the normal course of business, we are subject to income tax audits in various global jurisdictions in which we operate.
The years subject to examination vary for the U.S. and international jurisdictions, with the earliest tax year being 2011.
Based on the outcome of these examinations or the expiration of statutes of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the related unrecognized tax benefits could change from those recorded in our unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We currently anticipate that it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $0.1 million within the next twelve months.
 Discontinued Operations
 We incurred revenue and net income from discontinued operations of $39.3 million and $8.1 million, respectively for the three months ended December 31, 2018 related to our semiconductor cryogenics business as compared to $46.7 million and $14.9 million, respectively for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The net income is inclusive of income from the Ulvac Cryogenics, Inc. joint venture in 2018 and 2017.
The income from discontinued operations only
 Table of Contents
includes direct operating expenses incurred that (1) are clearly identifiable as costs being disposed of upon completion of the sale and (2) will not be continued by the Company on an ongoing basis.
Indirect expenses which supported the Cryogenics business, and which will remain as part of the continuing operations, are not reflected in income from discontinued operations.
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 A considerable portion of our revenue is dependent on the demand for semiconductor capital equipment which historically has experienced periodic downturns.
We believe that we have adequate resources to satisfy our working capital, financing activities, debt service and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months.
The cyclical nature of our served markets and uncertainty in the current global economic environment make it difficult for us to predict longer-term liquidity requirements with sufficient certainty.
We may be unable to obtain any required additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all.
If adequate funds are not available to us on acceptable terms or otherwise, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance products and services, respond to competitive pressure or take advantage of acquisition opportunities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.
 The discussion of our cash flows and liquidity that follows does not include the impact of the disposition of our cryogenics business and is stated on a total company consolidated basis.
 Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity
 Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world.
As of December 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $135.8 million, of which $99.1 million was held outside of the United States.
If these funds are needed for the U.S. operations, we would need to repatriate these funds.
As a result of recent changes in U.S. tax legislation, any repatriation in the future would likely not result in further U.S. federal income tax.
Our intent is to permanently reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current operating plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate these funds for our U.S. operations.
At December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, we had marketable securities of $2.5 million and $53.5 million, respectively.
Our marketable securities are generally readily convertible to cash without an adverse impact.
 Three Months Ended December 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended December 31, 2017
 Overview
 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $138.3 million at December 31, 2018 as compared to $251.2 million at September 30, 2018.
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $112.9 million was primarily attributable to net cash outflows of $445.2 million to acquire GENEWIZ, cash dividends paid of $7.2 million and capital expenditures of $3.6 million, partially offset by cash inflows from proceeds received from the incremental amendment to our existing term loan of $340.5 million, proceeds from the sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million and net cash inflows from operating activities of $6.3 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
 Table of Contents
 Operating Activities
 Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as earnings, working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities and other operating charges impact reported cash flows.
 Cash flows provided by operating activities were $6.3 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018, comprised primarily of earnings of $21.5 million, including net income of $14.4 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $7.1 million.
Partially offsetting these items were the uses of cash of $15.2 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities.
The changes in operating assets and liabilities that resulted in a use of cash consisted primarily of an increase in accounts receivable as a result of higher revenue, an increase in inventory levels to support the growth of our business and a decrease in accrued compensation and tax withholdings as a result of year-end cash incentive bonus payments.
These uses of cash were partially offset by sources of cash related primarily to increases in accounts payable.
Cash flows provided by operating activities were $3.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and comprised primarily of earnings of $27.1 million, including net income of $16.5 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $10.6 million, partially offset by the use of $23.9 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities.
 Investing Activities
 Cash flows from investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions, capital expenditures and purchases of marketable securities as well as cash proceeds generated from sales and maturities of marketable securities.
Cash used in investing activities was $398.6 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $94.3 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cash used in investing activities of $398.6 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 included cash outflow of $445.2 million for the acquisition of GENEWIZ, $3.6 million of capital expenditures, and $1.3 million for the purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by cash inflows from the proceeds of sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million.
Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2017 included cash payments of $65.1 million for acquisitions, $26.9 million for the purchases of marketable securities and $2.7 million of capital expenditures.
 Financing Activities
 Cash provided by financing activities was $331.4 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $190.2 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2018 included cash inflows of $340.5 million related to proceeds from the incremental term loan secured in November 2018, partially offset by cash dividend payments of $7.2 million and $1.8 million related to principal payments of debt.
Cash provided by financing activities during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 included cash inflows of $197.6 million related to proceeds from the term loan originated in October 2017, partially offset by cash dividend payments of $7.1 million.
 Capital Resources
 Senior Secured Term Loan Facility
 On October 4, 2017, we entered into a $200.0 million term loan with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
On November 15, 2018, we entered into an incremental amendment, or the Amendment to the existing credit agreement.
Under the Amendment, we obtained an incremental term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million.
The proceeds of the incremental loan were used to pay a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of GENEWIZ acquisition.
The term loan was issued at $340.5 million, or 97.3% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $9.5 million, or 2.7%, which represented financing cost of the loan.
Except as provided in the Amendment, the incremental loan is subject to the same terms and conditions as set forth in the existing credit agreement.
The loan principal amount may be
 Table of Contents
increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus any additional amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.
 The term loans mature and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024.
Installment principal payments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loan are payable on the last day of each quarter, with any remaining principal amount becoming due and payable on the maturity date.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we made principal payments of $1.8 million related to the term loan.
Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, we may redeem the term loans at any time at our option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the original term loan agreement and the Amendment.
We would also be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amounts then outstanding upon the occurrence of certain events, as set forth in the original term loan agreement and the Amendment.
 In connection with the GENEWIZ acquisition, we assumed three five-year term loans and two one-year term loans.
At December 31, 2018, we had an aggregate outstanding principal balances of $5.3 million for these term loans.
 At December 31, 2018, the aggregate outstanding principal balance of the term loans was $540.8 million, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs of $11.6 million.
Borrowings under the term loan bear variable interest rates.
As a result, we may experience exposure to interest rate risk due to the potential volatility associated with the variable interest rates on the term loan.
If rates increase, we may be subject to higher costs of servicing the loan which could reduce our profitability and cash flows.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the weighted average stated interest rate on the term loan was 5.0%.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we incurred aggregate interest expense of $5.3 million on the term loan.
Our debt service requirements are expected to be funded through our existing sources of liquidity and operating cash flows.
 The term loan agreement and the Amendment contain certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default.
As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.
 Line of Credit
 Facility
 We maintain a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the credit agreement.
The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022.
The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.
 As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $47.3 million available for borrowing under the line of credit.
There were no amounts outstanding pursuant to the line of credit as of December 31, 2018.
The amount of funds available for borrowing under the line of credit arrangement may fluctuate each period based on our borrowing base availability.
The line of credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, a financial covenant, affirmative and negative covenants, as well as events of default.
We were in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of December 31, 2018.
Although we believe we will be able to generate sufficient cash in the United States and foreign jurisdictions to fund future operating costs, we secured the revolving line of credit as an additional assurance for maintaining liquidity in the United States during potentially severe downturns of the cyclical semiconductor market, as well as for strategic investments and acquisitions.
 Shelf Registration Statement
 On July 27, 2016, we filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC to sell securities, including common stock, preferred stock, warrants, debt securities, depositary shares, purchase contracts and purchase units in amounts to be determined at the time of an offering.
Any such offering, if it does occur, may happen in one or more transactions.
The specific terms of any securities to be sold will be described in supplemental filings with the SEC.
This registration statement will expire on July 27, 2019.
 Table of Contents
 Dividends
 On January 30, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on March 22, 2019 to common stockholders of record as of March 1, 2019.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend on actual cash flow from operations, our financial condition, debt service and capital requirements, and any other factors our Board of Directors may consider relevant.
We intend to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future; however, the amount and timing of these dividends may be impacted by the cyclical nature of certain markets we serve.
We may reduce, delay or cancel a quarterly cash dividend based on the severity of a cyclical downturn.
 Share Repurchase Program
 On September 29, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $50.0 million worth of our common stock.
The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be based on market and business conditions, legal requirements and other factors and repurchases may be commenced or suspended at any time at our discretion.
There were no shares repurchased under this program during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
 Contractual Obligations and Requirements
 Our non-cancellable inventory purchase commitments were $95.9 million at December 31, 2018.
 At December 31, 2018, we had approximately $1.3 million of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations.
These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from our customers in the event that the product is not delivered or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms.
These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if we fail to meet certain contractual requirements.
None of these obligations were called during the three months ended December 31, 2018, and we currently do not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.
 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 As of December 31, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
 Table of Contents
 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
 Share Repurchase Program
 On September 29, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program for up to $50.0 million worth of our common stock.
The timing and amount of any shares repurchased are based on market and business conditions, legal requirements and other factors and repurchases may be commenced or suspended at any time at our discretion.
There were no shares repurchased under this program during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and there have been no shares repurchased under this program since its inception.
 Table of Contents
 Item 6.
Exhibits
 Table of Contents
 SIGNATURES
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
