Item 2. 



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS



 OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION



 FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2018 



Snapshot 













nm - not meaningful 





Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the FASB guidance on presentation of net periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit costs (“net benefit cost”). The guidance is primarily a change in financial statement presentation, but did impact the consolidated and reportable segment gross profit margins and expense and other income. As a result, the company aligned its presentation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The periods presented in this Form 10-Q are reported on a comparable basis. The company filed a Form 8-K on March 29, 2018 to recast its historical consolidated and segment information to reflect the change. 





The references to “adjusted for currency” or “at constant currency” in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates. When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period’s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates. Refer to “Currency Rate Fluctuations” on pages 69 and 70 for additional information. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 







Overall, the company believes that providing investors with a view of operating earnings as described above provides increased transparency and clarity into both the operational results of the business and the performance of the company’s pension plans; improves visibility to management decisions and their impacts on operational performance; enables better comparisons to peer companies; and allows the company to provide a long-term strategic view of the business going forward. The company’s reportable segment financial results reflect operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company’s management and measurement system. 



The following table provides the company’s (non-GAAP) operating earnings for the first quarter of 2018 and 2017. 









nm - not meaningful 





In the first quarter of 2018, the company reported $19.1 billion in revenue, $1.7 billion in income from continuing operations and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of $2.3 billion, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 as reported and $2.45 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company also generated $4.6 billion in cash from operations and $1.3 billion in free cash flow in the first quarter of 2018 and delivered shareholder returns of $2.2 billion through gross common stock repurchases and dividends. The first-quarter results demonstrate the work the company has done to reposition the business to lead in the high-value segments of IT, its differentiated value proposition and that its financial strategy and model are built to deliver to clients and shareholders over the long term. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 







Strategic imperatives revenue of $9.0 billion increased 15 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter, with double-digit growth in cloud, security and mobile, as the company continues to build new platforms and solutions and embeds cloud and AI capabilities across the business. Strategic imperatives revenue over the last 12 months was $37.7 billion, an increase of 12 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency, representing 47 percent of the company’s total revenue. Total Cloud revenue in the first quarter of 2018 of $4.2 billion increased 20 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 25 percent as reported and 20 percent adjusted for currency. The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $10.7 billion in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $8.6 billion in the first quarter of 2017. Analytics revenue of $4.8 billion increased 9 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. Mobile revenue increased 19 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency and Security revenue increased 65 percent (60 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting strong demand for the company’s highly-integrated security software, security managed services and the pervasive encryption capabilities in the z14 mainframe, and growth in security software solutions. 





The consolidated gross margin of 43.2 percent decreased 0.5 points year to year. The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 43.7 percent decreased 0.7 points. The consolidated gross margin and the operating (non-GAAP) gross margin performance improved sequentially 80 basis points and 70 basis points, respectively, compared to the fourth-quarter 2017 year-to-year performance driven by an improved mix and productivity led by services. 



Total expense and other (income) increased 9.1 percent in the first quarter of 2018 driven by actions the company took during the quarter to continue the repositioning of the business and due to currency impacts. The year-to-year increase was primarily the result of a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges (5 points) to further align the company’s skills to the higher value areas, the effects of currency (5 points) and a lower level of intellectual property (IP) income (2 points), partially offset by lower operational spending (3 points), reflecting both a high level of investment and a continued focus on driving productivity. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 9.4 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors. 



Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.1 billion decreased 20.2 percent and the pre-tax margin was 6.0 percent, a decrease of 1.9 points year to year. The continuing operations effective tax rate was (47.5) percent compared to (23.1) percent in the first quarter of 2017. The negative tax rate in the first quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by resolution of certain tax matters related to the U.S. Federal audit of the company’s 2013-2014 tax returns and the completion of the U.S. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



Federal audit of amended tax returns filed for prior years ($0.8 billion); partially offset by a provisional charge ($0.1 billion) as a result of the January 2018 IRS guidance related to U.S. tax reform. The prior year negative tax rate was primarily driven by discrete tax items ($0.5 billion), including the first-quarter 2017 intra-entity transfer of assets ($0.6 billion). Income from continuing operations of $1.7 billion decreased 4.4 percent and the net income margin was 8.8 percent, a decrease of 0.9 points versus the first quarter of 2017. Net income of $1.7 billion decreased 4.1 percent year to year. 



Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.7 billion decreased 14.4 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 2.1 points to 9.1 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $2.3 billion increased 2.1 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 11.9 percent, a decline of 0.3 points year to year. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2018 was (30.5) percent. 



Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $1.81 decreased 2.2 percent year to year. In the first quarter of 2018, the company repurchased 5.0 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $0.8 billion and had $3.0 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at March 31, 2018. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $2.45 increased 4.3 percent versus the first quarter of 2017. 







· Decreases in total receivables ($3.1 billion); partially offset by 



· Increases in deferred costs ($1.0 billion) driven by capitalized sales commissions ($0.7 billion) related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, prepaid expenses and other current assets ($0.7 billion) driven by contract assets, prepaid pension assets ($0.5 billion), marketable securities ($0.3 billion) and deferred taxes ($0.2 billion). 





· Decreases in taxes ($0.8 billion), accounts payable ($0.7 billion) and total debt ($0.4 billion); partially offset by 



· Increases in deferred income ($1.6 billion). 





· Increases from net income ($1.7 billion), adoption of the new revenue standard ($0.5 billion) and retirement-related benefit plans ($0.5 billion); partially offset by 



· Decreases from dividends ($1.4 billion) and share repurchases ($0.8 billion).



The company generated $4.6 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, an increase of $0.6 billion compared to the first quarter of 2017, driven primarily by an increase in cash provided by working capital performance and financing receivables, partially offset by an increase in cash income tax payments. Net cash used in investing activities of $1.8 billion in the first quarter of 2018 was $2.1 billion higher than the prior year, primarily driven by net non-operating financing receivables ($1.7 billion). Net cash used in financing activities of $2.9 billion increased $0.8 billion compared to the first quarter of 2017, driven primarily by an increase in net cash used for debt transactions ($1.2 billion) driven by a higher level of debt maturities; partially offset by a decrease in cash used for gross common share repurchases ($0.5 billion). 



The company expects GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of at least $11.58, and continues to expect operating (non-GAAP) earnings of at least $13.80 per diluted share for 2018. The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow realization is expected to be in excess of 100 percent of GAAP net income. Refer to page 70 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure. Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 68 and 69 for additional information on the company’s expectations. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



First Quarter in Review 



Results of Continuing Operations 



Segment Details 



The following is an analysis of the first quarter of 2018 versus the first quarter of 2017 reportable segment external revenue and gross margin results. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm’s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items. 







Cognitive Solutions 





Cognitive Solutions revenue of $4,299 million grew 5.8 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year as the company continued to scale new platforms and solutions and increase its SaaS offerings. There was year-to-year growth in both Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software on an as-reported and constant currency basis. 



Solutions Software revenue of $2,957 million grew 5.9 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, led by offerings in analytics and security. Within analytics, year-to-year growth, as reported and adjusted for currency, was driven by strong transactional performance. Revenue from security offerings grew again this quarter compared to the prior year with strong growth in SaaS. The company remains well positioned in this market and continues to increase its AI capabilities across its extensive security portfolio. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



Transaction Processing Software revenue of $1,341 million grew 5.7 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. Growth was driven by Z middleware, as clients continue to invest and grow their high-value, mission-critical workloads on the Z platform. 



Cognitive Solutions total strategic imperatives revenue of $2.8 billion grew 6 percent year to year as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency). Cloud revenue of $0.6 billion grew 6 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $2.0 billion. 







Cognitive Solutions gross profit margin decreased 1.0 points to 76.3 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year reflecting the strong transactional performance in the quarter offset by continued investment in strategic areas, business mix and a higher level of royalty cost associated with IP licensing agreements compared to the prior-year period. 



Pre-tax income of $1,333 million increased 5.1 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. While the pre-tax margin declined 0.3 points to 26.2 percent, this included an impact of 1.8 points from higher workforce rebalancing charges in the current year. 



Global Business Services 





Global Business Services revenue of $4,174 million grew 4.2 percent as reported (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. These results reflect modest improvement in the year-to-year performance compared to the fourth quarter of 2017. As the company continues to transform this business, GBS signings grew again in the quarter, both as reported and adjusted for currency. There was growth year to year in strategic imperatives revenue reflecting the ongoing shift to areas of higher client value, such as cloud and analytics. 



Consulting revenue of $1,867 million grew 5.5 percent as reported (flat adjusted for currency) year to year in the first quarter of 2018. This performance was led by the Digital Strategy and iX business, which implements end-to-end digital transformation strategies for clients. Global Process Services revenue of $305 million decreased 2.9 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the first quarter of the prior year. Application Management revenue of $2,002 million grew 4.1 percent as reported (decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency) and reflected sequential improvement from the year-to-year performance in the fourth quarter of 2017. Application Management signings grew double digits as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the prior year as the company leverages its incumbency to help clients modernize their critical applications and migrate to the cloud. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



Within GBS, total strategic imperatives revenue of $2.5 billion grew 12 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $1.0 billion grew 19 percent as reported (12 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.2 billion. 







GBS gross profit margin stabilized in the first quarter, decreasing 0.1 points year to year to 23.3 percent with a 1.9 point improvement in trajectory from the fourth quarter of 2017. This stabilization was driven by productivity, revenue mix and pricing improvements. Pre-tax income of $145 million decreased 48.6 percent year to year. The pre-tax margin declined 3.5 points to 3.4 percent which included an impact of 1.9 points from a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year. Overall, this performance reflects the company’s ongoing investments in the next generation of offerings, skills and enablement, and reshaping of its pyramids for each of the core service lines which will drive operating leverage in the long term. 









Infrastructure Services revenue of $5,825 million grew 6.2 percent as reported (flat adjusted for currency) compared to the first quarter of the prior year. This resulted from improved revenue from backlog realization as the company continues to help clients drive efficiencies and gain agility in their IT environments through hybrid cloud. Technical Support Services revenue of $1,782 million grew 1.2 percent as reported (decreased 4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year due in part to the hardware cycle dynamics, offset by growth in core multi-vendor support services. Integration Software first-quarter revenue of $1,019 million grew 5.1 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year, with continued strong growth in SaaS offerings across the portfolio and the company’s new IBM Cloud Private offering. This portfolio remains essential to clients as they connect multiple environments through a single architecture. 







Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 









Services Backlog and Signings 





The estimated total services backlog at March 31, 2018 was $121 billion, an increase of 4.2 percent as reported (decrease of 2 percent adjusted for currency). There was growth in Global Technology Services backlog as reported, but a decrease year to year adjusted for currency. GBS backlog was flat year to year as reported and decreased year to year adjusted for currency. 



Total services backlog includes Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services, Application Management and Technical Support Services. Total backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract which is either non-cancellable, or which historically has very low likelihood of termination, given the criticality of certain services to the company’s clients. Total backlog does not include as-a-Service arrangements that allow for termination under contractual commitment terms. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and adjustments for currency. 



Services signings are management’s initial estimate of the value of a client’s commitment under a services contract. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of signings. The calculation used by management involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client’s commitment, including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down costs. 



Signings include Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services and Application Management contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new value. Technical Support Services is not included in signings as maintenance contracts tend to be more steady state, where revenues equal renewals. 



Contract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the company’s requirements for initial signings. A new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed incidental or coincidental to an acquisition or divestiture. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 





Systems 





Systems revenue of $1,500 million grew 7.5 percent year to year as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. The company has modernized its systems for the most contemporary workloads and, within Systems Hardware, revenue of $1,093 million grew 9.2 percent year to year as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency). This performance was driven by strong z14 momentum and growth in Power Systems, partially offset by a decline in Storage Systems, as reported and adjusted for currency. Operating Systems Software revenue of $407 million grew 3.2 percent as reported (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. 



Within Systems Hardware, IBM Z revenue grew 59.3 percent as reported (54 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. The adoption of the z14 was again broad based with new clients added to the platform across several countries during the quarter. The company continues to address emerging workloads across the Z platform including blockchain, machine learning, dev ops and payments. The new z14 model, designed specifically for cloud environments, was recently announced bringing the power of IBM Z to a broader set of clients. The mainframe continues to deliver a high-value, secure and scalable platform that is critical in managing clients’ complex environments. 



Power Systems grew for the second consecutive quarter with revenue up 6.1 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, driven by the entry-level portfolio and cloud-enabled offerings. Power Systems remain vital to many workloads and during the first quarter, the company began shipping POWER 9 entry systems which are designed for AIX, IBM i and Linux workloads. These cloud-ready systems provide leadership capabilities in advanced analytics, cloud environments and data intensive AI workloads. 



Storage Systems revenue decreased 12.0 percent as reported (15 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, after four consecutive quarters of growth. This decline was driven by an increasingly competitive environment and continued pricing pressures. There were also sales execution challenges that impacted performance in the first quarter of 2018. 



Within Systems, total strategic imperatives revenue of $0.7 billion grew 28 percent as reported (24 percent adjusted for currency) year to year in the first quarter of 2018. Cloud revenue of $0.5 billion grew 16 percent as reported (12 percent adjusted for currency). 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 







The Systems gross profit margin decreased 3.8 points to 43.7 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year decrease was driven by actions taken in the quarter to better position the systems cost structure over the longer term which impacted margin by 4.9 points. This was partially offset by a benefit from product mix, primarily toward the higher margin IBM Z. 



The pre-tax loss in the first quarter of 2018 was $203 million compared with $188 million in the prior year. The pre-tax margin was relatively flat year to year, which included the margin impact and a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges in the current year. 



Overall, in the first quarter of 2018, the business’ underlying performance, excluding these significant items in cost and expense, reflected pre-tax margin expansion while successfully delivering innovation in support of clients’ evolving workload needs. 



Global Financing 



Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients’ acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. 



Results of Operations 





In the first quarter of 2018, Global Financing total revenue of $834 million increased 8.6 percent compared to the prior year. Internal revenue grew 18.2 percent, driven by an increase in internal used equipment sales (up 21.5 percent to $325 million) and an increase in internal financing (up 9.1 percent to $104 million). External revenue was flat as reported (down 3.9 percent adjusted for currency), due to an increase in external financing (up 5.5 percent to $313 million), offset by a decrease in external used equipment sales (down 15.1 percent to $92 million). 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



The year-to-year increase in internal financing revenue in the first quarter of 2018 was due to higher asset yields and higher average asset balances. The increase in external financing revenue in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, was due to higher average asset balances, partially offset by lower asset yields. 



Total sales of used equipment represented 50.0 percent of Global Financing’s revenue in the first quarter of 2018 and 48.9 percent in the first quarter of 2017. The increase was due to a higher volume of used equipment sales for internal transactions. The gross profit margin on used sales was 59.0 percent and 51.5 percent in the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in the gross profit margin was driven by a shift in mix towards higher margin internal equipment sales and an increase in external sales margins. 



Global Financing pre-tax income increased 21.3 percent to $377 million in the first quarter of 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to higher gross profit of $59 million and a decrease in total expenses of $7 million. 



Global Financing return on equity was 32.5 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to 25.2 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase in return on equity in the first quarter was due to an increase in annualized after-tax income. Refer to page 72 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation. 



Total unguaranteed residual value of leases was $671 million as of March 31, 2018. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of the equipment to be returned at end of lease. Third-party residual value guarantees increase the minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease, direct financing lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of sales-type leases were $21 million and $43 million for the financing transactions originated during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of direct financing leases were $48 million and $34 million for the financing transactions originated during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The associated aggregate guaranteed future values at the scheduled end of lease were $3 million for the financing transactions originated during each of the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. 



Geographic Revenue 



In addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a geographic basis. 







Total revenue of $19,072 million increased 5.1 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $8,707 million was flat as reported and adjusted for currency. EMEA revenue of $6,176 million increased 13.6 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $4,188 million increased 4.8 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency in the first quarter versus the prior year. 



Within Americas, the U.S. decreased 2.0 percent compared to the prior year. Canada increased 8.8 percent as reported and 4 percent year to year adjusted for currency. Latin America increased 5.4 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency. Within Latin America, Brazil increased 4.9 percent as reported and 8 percent adjusted for currency. Mexico increased 3.9 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



In EMEA, France increased 24.6 percent and 8 percent adjusted for currency and Spain increased 28.9 percent and 12 percent adjusted for currency, compared to the same period in the prior year. Germany increased 11.5 percent as reported, but declined 3 percent adjusted for currency and the UK increased 10.2 percent as reported, but decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency. The Middle East and Africa region increased 9.3 percent as reported and 7 percent adjusted for currency. 



Within Asia Pacific, Japan increased 4.3 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency, while China increased 8.8 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. Korea increased 12.8 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency), India increased 4.4 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) and Australia increased 2.8 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency. 



Expense 



Total Expense and Other (Income) 







For additional information regarding total expense and other (income) for both expense presentations, see the following analyses by category. 



Selling, General and Administrative Expense 









· Higher workforce rebalancing charges (7 points); and 



· The effects of currency (4 points); partially offset by 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



· Lower spending (2 points). 



Operating (non-GAAP) expense increased 9.2 percent year to year driven by primarily the same factors. 



Bad debt expense decreased $2 million year to year. The receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at March 31, 2018, an increase of 10 basis points from December 31, 2017 and a decrease of 50 basis points from March 31, 2017. 



Research, Development and Engineering 











· Lower spending (8 points); partially offset by 



· The effects of currency (2 points). 



Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income 





Licensing of intellectual property including royalty-based fees decreased 34.6 percent year to year in the first quarter of 2018. The company entered into new partnership agreements in the first three months of 2018, which included one transaction with period income greater than $100 million. There was also one transaction greater than $100 million in the first quarter of 2017. The company licenses IP to partners who allocate their skills to extend the value of assets that are high value, but may be in mature markets. The timing and amount of licensing, sales or other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon the timing of licensing agreements, economic conditions, industry consolidation and the timing of new patents and know-how development. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



Other (Income) and Expense 







nm - not meaningful 





· Higher foreign currency transaction losses ($125 million); and 



· Higher non-operating retirement-related costs ($55 million); partially offset by 



· Increased gains on derivative instruments ($59 million); and 



· Higher interest income ($40 million). 



Operating (non-GAAP) other (income) and expense was $11 million of expense in the first quarter of 2018 compared to income of $31 million in the prior year. The year-to-year change was driven primarily by the same factors above, excluding the higher non-operating retirement-related costs. 



Interest Expense 





Interest expense increased $30 million year to year in the first quarter of 2018. Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) for the first quarter of 2018 was $347 million, an increase of $54 million year to year, primarily driven by a higher average debt balance and higher average interest rates. 



Retirement-Related Plans 







Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 







Total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost increased by $63 million compared to the first quarter of 2017, primarily driven by lower expected return on plan assets ($48 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($42 million); partially offset by lower interest costs ($40 million). 



As discussed in the “Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings” section on page 50, the company characterizes certain retirement-related costs as operating and others as non-operating. Utilizing this characterization, operating retirement-related costs in the first quarter of 2018 were $387 million, an increase of $9 million compared to the first quarter of 2017, primarily driven by higher defined contribution plans cost ($5 million) and higher service cost ($2 million). Non-operating costs of $402 million in the first quarter of 2018 increased $55 million year to year, driven primarily by lower expected return on plan assets ($48 million), an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($42 million), partially offset by lower interest costs ($40 million). 



Taxes 



The continuing operations effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 was (47.5) percent, a decrease of 24.4 points compared to the first quarter of 2017. The operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for the first quarter of 2018 was (30.5) percent, a decrease of 21.1 points compared to the first quarter of 2017. 



The year-to-year change in the continuing operations effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2018 was primarily driven by a discrete tax benefit from the resolution of certain tax matters related to the ongoing U.S. Federal audit of the company’s 2013-2014 tax returns and the completion of the U.S Federal audit of amended tax returns of prior years (67.8 points), and foreign audit activity (10.6 points). 



These benefits were partially offset by the prior-year tax benefit related to the intercompany transfer of IP recognized in the first quarter of 2017 (40.9 points), a first-quarter 2018 provisional tax charge due to the January 2018 IRS guidance related to U.S. tax reform (9.4 points) and lower current year benefits from foreign tax credits (3.7 points). The change in the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate was primarily driven by the same factors, except for the impact of the provisional tax charge related to U.S. tax reform. 



Earnings Per Share 



Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 







Actual shares outstanding at March 31, 2018 were 918.0 million. The weighted-average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution during the first quarter of 2018 were 22.4 million shares lower than the first quarter of 2017. The decrease was primarily the result of the common stock repurchase program. 



Financial Position 



Dynamics 



At March 31, 2018, the balance sheet remains strong and the company continues to have the financial flexibility to support the business over the long term. Cash, marketable securities and restricted cash at quarter end were $13,155 million. The company continues to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives. Total debt of $46,387 million decreased $437 million from December 31, 2017, driven by debt maturities of $3,298 million, partially offset by new debt issuances of $2,198 million. Within total debt, $31,667 million, or approximately 68 percent, is in support of the Global Financing business. In the first three months of 2018, the company generated $4,602 million in cash from operations compared to $3,955 million in the first quarter of 2017. The company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its credit facilities. 



The assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company’s financial position. The financial position amounts appearing on pages 5 and 6 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing. 













At March 31, 2018, substantially all client and commercial financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 53 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. The increase in 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



investment grade year to year (1 point) was driven primarily by rating changes within the existing portfolio, not by changing the company’s approach to the market. This investment grade percentage is based on the credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio. 



The company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigating actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfers of receivables recorded as true sales in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease. Adjusting for the mitigation actions, the investment grade content would increase by 17 points to 70 percent, an increase of 4 points year to year. 



IBM Working Capital 









· A decline in receivables of $2,401 million ($2,843 million adjusted for currency) primarily as a result of collections of higher year-end balances and the reclassification of certain trade receivables to prepaid and other current assets due to the adoption of the new revenue standard; partially offset by 



· An increase of $713 million ($653 million adjusted for currency) in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily due to the reclassification from receivables. 





· A decrease in taxes payable of $1,301 million ($1,341 million adjusted for currency) principally driven by the resolution of certain matters in relation to the ongoing U.S. tax audit of the company’s 2013-2014 tax returns; and 



· A decrease in short-term debt of $1,010 million ($1,015 million adjusted for currency) primarily as a result of maturities of $3,248 million; partially offset by reclassifications of $1,742 million from long-term debt to reflect upcoming maturities; and 



· A decrease in accounts payable of $715 million ($786 million adjusted for currency) reflecting declines from typically higher year-end balances; partially offset by 



· An increase in deferred income of $1,507 million ($1,346 adjusted for currency) primarily due to the cyclical increase in annual billings. 



Receivables and Allowances 



Roll Forward of Total IBM Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses (included in Total IBM) 













Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



The total IBM receivables provision coverage was 1.7 percent at March 31, 2018, an increase of 10 basis points compared to December 31, 2017. The majority of the write-offs during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to Global Financing receivables, which had been previously reserved. 



Global Financing Receivables and Allowances 



The following table presents external Global Financing receivables excluding residual values, and the allowance for credit losses, and including miscellaneous receivables. 





The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved increased from 1.1 percent at December 31, 2017, to 1.2 percent at March 31, 2018. The increase was driven by additional provisions of $4 million and by the overall decline in gross receivables, partially offset by write-offs of $6 million of receivables previously reserved. Specific reserves decreased 1 percent from $258 million at December 31, 2017, to $255 million at March 31, 2018. Unallocated reserves increased 10 percent from $78 million at December 31, 2017, to $86 million at March 31, 2018. 



Roll Forward of Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses 











Global Financing’s bad debt expense was $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to $10 million for the same period in 2017. 



Noncurrent Assets and Liabilities 







· An increase in retirement plans assets of $486 million ($414 million adjusted for currency) driven by the expected returns on plan assets, partially offset by interest costs; and 



· An increase in deferred costs of $457 million ($449 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by capitalized sales commissions with the adoption of the new revenue standard; partially offset by 



· A decrease of $694 million in long-term financing receivables ($810 million adjusted for currency) reflecting seasonal reductions from higher year-end balances. 







Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



· Issuances of $2,121 million; partially offset by 



· Current upcoming maturities of long-term debt of $1,742 million. 





· An increase of $284 million ($271 million adjusted for currency) in other liabilities driven by income tax reserves. 



Debt 



The company’s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are executed to manage the overall asset and liability profile. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed. 





Total debt of $46,387 million decreased $437 million from December 31, 2017. 





Non-Global Financing debt of $14,709 million was down $681 million from December 31, 2017 and up $403 million from March 31, 2017. 



Global Financing debt-to-equity ratio 





The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term, currency and interest rate variability underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm’s-length pricing. 



Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company’s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing’s external client and internal business is included in the “Global Financing Results of Operations” on page 58 and in note 7, “Segments,” on page 35. In the company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing’s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense. 



Equity 



Total equity increased by $565 million from December 31, 2017 primarily due to increases from net income ($1,679 million), adoption of the new revenue standard ($524 million) and retirement-related plans ($537 million); partially offset by decreases from dividends ($1,382 million) and gross common share repurchases ($827 million). 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion – (continued) 



Cash Flow 



The company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 7, are summarized in the following table. These amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business. 









· Working capital improvements of $484 million; and 



· An increase in cash provided by financing receivables of $313 million; partially offset by 



· An increase in cash income tax payments of $157 million. 





· An increase in net non-operating financing receivables of $1,659 million, primarily due to an increase in commercial financing volumes and changing business dynamics within OEM payables. 





· An increase in net cash used in debt transactions of $1,190 million primarily driven by a higher level of maturities; partially offset by 



· A decrease in cash used for gross common share repurchases of $516 million. 



Looking Forward 



The company’s strategies, investments and actions are all made with an objective of optimizing long-term performance. A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy. 



As part of its strategic model, the company expects to continue to allocate capital efficiently and effectively to investments, and to return value to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. Over the long term, in consideration of the opportunities it will continue to develop, the company expects to have the ability to generate low single-digit revenue growth, and with a higher-value business mix, high single-digit operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share growth, with free cash flow realization of GAAP net income over 90 percent. 



Over the last several years, the company has been making investments and shifting resources, embedding AI and cloud into its offerings while building new solutions and modernizing its existing platforms. These investments not only drive current performance, but will extend the company’s innovation leadership into the future. The company’s key differentiators are built around three pillars - innovative technology, industry expertise and trust and security, uniquely delivered through an integrated model. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion — (continued) 





Consistent with the long-term model, the company also expects, over the course of 2018, to continue to acquire key capabilities, remix skills, invest in areas of growth and return value to shareholders. A high level of investment is important as the company continues to build its capabilities in AI, cloud, security and blockchain, among others. The actions taken in the first-quarter 2018 to reposition the business are aligned with this strategy. The company expects the annualized gross savings from the first-quarter workforce rebalancing actions to deliver two times the investment, with approximately 50 percent of that savings in the second-half 2018. As the company continues to scale efficiencies in the cloud and as-a-service businesses and with increased yield in services productivity, service margins are expected to expand in the second half. There is a mix headwind from the mainframe cycle expected in the second half. This is all taken into account in the full-year expectations. 



Overall, the company expects GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for 2018 to be at least $11.58; excluding acquisition-related charges of $0.78 per share, non-operating retirement-related items of $1.32 per share and U.S. tax reform related-charges of $0.12 per share, operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share is expected to be at least $13.80. For the first half of 2018, the company expects operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share to be approximately 40 percent of the full-year expectation, which is a point better than the first-half skew in 2017. 



Free cash flow realization, which is defined as free cash flow to income from continuing operations (GAAP), is expected to be over 100%. The company continues to expect free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow expectations include a year-to-year headwind from strong receivables collections in 2017, an approximate $600 million year-to-year headwind from cash tax payments and an expected increase in capital expenditures. 



For 2018, the company expects the GAAP tax rate to be approximately 2 points lower than the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate expectation. The company expects its operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for 2018 to be 16 percent, plus or minus 2 points (excluding discrete items), which is a 4-point headwind year to year. The tax rates reflect the implementation of U.S. tax reform, which includes a lower U.S. corporate tax rate, offset by the broader tax base and reduced foreign tax credit utilization. The rate will change year to year based on discrete tax events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies. 



The company expects 2018 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $3.2 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million compared to 2017. This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2017. Consistent with the newly adopted FASB guidance for the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, approximately flat versus 2017. Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.7 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million compared to 2017, driven by lower income from expected return on assets and a year-to-year impact due to the pension obligation adjustment resulting from the successful resolution of the UK pension litigation matter in 2017. Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2018, approximately flat compared to 2017. 



Currency Rate Fluctuations 



Changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar (USD) affect the company’s financial results and financial position. At March 31, 2018, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into more dollars than at year-end 2017. The company uses financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions. 



During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates. For example, when pricing offerings in the marketplace, the company may use some of the advantage from a weakening U.S. dollar to improve its position competitively, and price more aggressively to win the business, essentially passing on a portion of the currency advantage to its customers. Competition will frequently take the same action. Consequently, the company believes that some of the currency-based changes in cost impact the prices charged to clients. The company also maintains currency hedging programs for cash management purposes which temporarily mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion — (continued) 



currency impacts on the company’s financial results. 



The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to “adjusted for currency” or “constant currency” reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the company’s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in the first three months of 2018. Based on the currency rate movements in the first three months of 2018, total revenue increased 5.1 percent as reported and was flat at constant currency versus the first three months of 2017. On an income from continuing operations before income tax basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $70 million in the first three months of 2018 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $90 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The same mathematical exercise resulted in an increase of approximately $10 million in the first three months of 2017 on both an as-reported basis and an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace. 



For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations. Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars. 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



In the company’s 2017 Annual Report, on pages 67 to 70, there is a discussion of the company’s liquidity including two tables that present five years of data. The table presented on page 67 includes net cash from operating activities, cash and marketable securities and the size of the company’s global credit facilities for each of the past five years. For the three months ended, or as of, as applicable, March 31, 2018, those amounts are $4.6 billion for net cash from operating activities, $13.2 billion of cash, restricted cash and marketable securities and $15.3 billion in global credit facilities, respectively. 



The major rating agencies’ ratings on the company’s debt securities at March 31, 2018 appear in the table below. The ratings remain unchanged from December 31, 2017. The company does not have “ratings trigger” provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating. The company’s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company’s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At March 31, 2018, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $352 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the company’s outstanding instruments and market conditions. The company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity. 





The company prepares its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with applicable accounting standards for cash flow presentation on page 7 of this Form 10-Q and highlights causes and events underlying sources and uses of cash in that format on page 68. For the purpose of running its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a different manner. 



Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt. The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software. A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. Therefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion — (continued) 



from operating activities that exclude the effect of Global Financing receivables. Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows. As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow. As a result the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric. 



The following is management’s view of cash flows for the first three months of 2018 and 2017 prepared in a manner 



consistent with the description above. 







In the first three months of 2018, the company generated free cash flow of $1.3 billion, an increase of $0.3 billion versus the prior year. The increase was driven by performance in working capital, partially offset by higher cash taxes and higher capital expenditures. Net capital investments of $0.9 billion increased $0.1 billion year to year. In the first three months of 2018, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $1.4 billion in dividends and $0.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases (5.0 million shares). 



Events that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed previously and in the company’s 2017 Annual Report include significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation, future pension funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets or the timing of tax payments. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of variables, which are more completely described in note 12, “Contingencies,” in this Form 10-Q. With respect to pension funding, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan contributions to certain non-U.S. plans of approximately $400 million in 2018. Contributions related to all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2018. Financial market performance could increase the legally mandated minimum contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more frequent remeasurement of the funded status. The company is not quantifying any further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations. 



In 2018, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit plans. 



The company’s U.S. cash flows continue to be sufficient to fund its current domestic operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. The company’s U.S. operations generate substantial cash flows, and, in those circumstances where the company has additional cash requirements in the U.S., the company has several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates, utilizing its committed global credit facility, repatriating certain foreign earnings and utilizing intercompany loans with certain foreign subsidiaries. 





Table of Contents 



Management Discussion — (continued) 



Global Financing Return on Equity Calculation 











Table of Contents 



Management Discussion — (continued) 



GAAP Reconciliation 



The tables below provide a reconciliation of the company’s income statement results as reported under GAAP to its operating earnings presentation which is a non-GAAP measure. The company’s calculation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Refer to the “Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings” section on page 50 for the company’s rationale for presenting operating earnings information. 

















Table of Contents 



Management Discussion — (continued) 



Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements 



Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this Form 10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in the economic environment and client spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; impacts of damage to the company’s reputation; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; cybersecurity and data privacy considerations; fluctuations in financial results; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key employees and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers; product quality issues; impacts of business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels and ecosystems; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions, alliances and dispositions; risks from legal proceedings; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein or herein by reference. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. 



Item 4. Controls and Procedures 



The company’s management evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report. There has been no change in the company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company’s internal control over financial reporting. 



Part II — Other Information 



Item 1. Legal Proceedings 



Refer to note 12, “Contingencies,” on pages 43 to 45 of this Form 10-Q. 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities 



The following table provides information relating to the company’s repurchase of common stock for the first quarter of 2018. 









Table of Contents 



Item 5. Other Information 



As disclosed in the company’s 2018 Proxy Statement filed on March 12, 2018, Mark Fields and W. James McNerney Jr. were not nominees for election at the company’s annual meeting of stockholders held on April 24, 2018, and their terms on the Board ended. As a result, Article III, Section 2 of the company’s By-Laws was amended to decrease the number of directors to thirteen, effective April 24, 2018. The full text of IBM’s By-Laws, as amended effective April 24, 2018, is included as Exhibit 3.2 to this report. 



Item 6. Exhibits 







Table of Contents 



SIGNATURE 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 





