Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and quarters are to our fiscal years and fiscal quarters. As used herein, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” and the “Company” refer to Western Digital Corporation and its subsidiaries.
The flash industry is characterized by cyclicality as it responds to variations in customers’ demand for products and manages production capacity to meet that demand. As technology conversions have matured and manufacturing yields have improved, flash supply has increased relative to demand. As a result, average selling price per gigabyte of flash-based products has declined in recent quarters.
Through our strategic partnership with Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”) referred to as “Flash Ventures”, we and TMC operate flash-based memory wafer manufacturing facilities in Yokkaichi, Japan. We are obligated to purchase half of Flash Ventures’ flash-based memory wafer supply or pay for half of Flash Ventures’ fixed costs regardless of the output we choose to purchase. We are also obligated to fund 49.9% to 50% of Flash Ventures’ capital investments to the extent that Flash Ventures’ operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments.
Net Revenue. The decrease in net revenue in the three months ended March 29, 2019 from the comparable period of the prior year was primarily driven by lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products and lower sales of HDD products. Specifically, Client Devices revenue decreased 29.7% year over year, primarily driven by a reduction in flash-based mobile products and client compute HDD. Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions decreased 25.0% year over year, primarily driven by lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products as well as lower sales of enterprise SSD, capacity enterprise HDD and performance enterprise HDD products. Client Solutions revenue decreased 22.8% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of retail HDD and lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products. 
The decrease in net revenue for the nine months ended March 29, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year, is primarily due to lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products and lower sales of HDD products. Specifically, Client Devices revenue for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 decreased 15.0% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of client compute HDD products and flash-based mobile products and lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products, partially offset by higher sales of client SSD. Our revenue for Data Center Devices and Solutions for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 decreased 15.6% year over year, driven primarily by lower sales of our enterprise SSDs and performance enterprise HDDs. Client Solutions revenue for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 decreased 21.9% year over year, primarily driven by lower sales of retail HDD and lower average selling prices per gigabyte of flash-based products.
Our top 10 customers accounted for 41% and 45% of our net revenue for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and 44% and 42% of our net revenue for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively. For the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue.
Gross Profit and Gross Margin. The decreases in gross profit for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 from the comparable periods in the prior year were primarily due to the lower average selling prices per gigabyte for flash-based products, the flash manufacturing underutilization charges and a charge to cost of revenue of $110 million (3.0% and 0.9% of revenue for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019, respectively) primarily to reduce component inventory to net realizable value for flash-based multi-chip package products that include externally-sourced dynamic random access memory products. Gross profit and gross margin also include amortization expense on acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation, a flash manufacturing underutilization charge, and charges related to the implementation of cost-saving initiatives and other charges, which aggregated $349 million, or 9.5%, of revenue, compared to $247 million, or 4.9%, of revenue, for the three months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively, and $879 million, or 6.8%, of revenue, compared to $819 million, or 5.3%, of revenue, for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively. We expect gross margins to be negatively impacted by flash manufacturing underutilization charges to be recorded in cost of revenue in the range of $55 million to $75 million with the substantial majority expected to be recognized by the end of the fiscal year.
Employee termination, asset impairment and other charges primarily related to actions associated with the realignment of our business. For additional information regarding employee termination, asset impairment and other charges, see Part I, Item 1, Note 13, Employee Termination, Asset Impairment and Other Charges, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
The primary driver of the difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 21% is the discrete effect of the finalization of the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act. For the three months ended March 29, 2019, these discrete effects consist of income tax benefits of $71 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax. For the nine months ended March 29, 2019, these discrete effects consist of $107 million related to the mandatory deemed repatriation tax and $152 million related to the decision to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion. For both periods, the remaining difference is attributable primarily to an increase in the estimated effective tax rate due to changes in the relative mix of earnings by jurisdiction, partially offset by credits and tax holidays. The windfall tax benefits resulting from the adoption of ASU 2016-09 were not material for the three and nine months ended March 29, 2019.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% included discrete effects consisting of an income tax benefit of $211 million from deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from our debt financing transactions. The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% were related to the net charge of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, offset in part by an income tax benefit related to the re-measurement of deferred taxes as required by the 2017 Act and deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from our debt financing transactions. The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% were tax credits and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expired or expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030 and windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards. The windfall tax benefits are a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, which required us to recognize $46 million and $73 million of windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards as a component of our income tax expense for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
We believe our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations as well as our available credit facilities will be sufficient to meet our working capital, debt, stock repurchases, dividend and capital expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. Our ability to sustain our working capital position is subject to a number of risks that we discuss in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. See also “Debt” below for information regarding the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and term loans (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”).
During fiscal 2019, we expect cash used for purchases of property, plant and equipment and net activity in notes receivable and equity investments relating to our Flash Ventures joint venture with Toshiba Memory Corporation to be approximately $1.50 billion to $1.90 billion. The total expected cash to be used could vary depending on the timing and completion of various capital projects and the availability, timing and terms of related financing.
A total of $2.55 billion and $4.15 billion of our cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the U.S. as of March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018, respectively. During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we finalized the accounting for the tax effects of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on our indefinite reinvestment assertion. After re-evaluating the existing short- and long-term capital allocation polices, we intend to repatriate all of our foreign undistributed earnings. Our decision to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion is based on interpretative guidance issued by the IRS to date related to the ordering and the taxation of a repatriation of our foreign undistributed earnings. For additional information regarding our indefinite reinvestment assertion, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10‑Q.
For the three months ended March 29, 2019, DSO decreased by 6 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting the timing of shipments and customer collections and the factoring of receivables. DIO increased by 22 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting increases in hard drive inventory in response to the plant closure in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and increases in flash inventory. DPO decreased by 16 days over the prior year, primarily reflecting routine variations in timing of purchases and payments during the period.
Our cash equivalents are primarily invested in money market funds that invest in U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities as well as bank certificates of deposit. In addition, we invest directly in U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. and International Government agency securities, certificates of deposit, asset-backed securities and corporate and municipal notes and bonds.
Other than the commitments related to Flash Ventures, facility lease commitments incurred in the normal course of business and certain indemnification provisions (see “Short and Long-term Liquidity-Contractual Obligations and Commitments” below), we do not have any other material off-balance sheet financing arrangements or liabilities, guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests in transferred assets, or any other obligation arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. We do not have any majority-owned subsidiaries that are not included in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we do not have an interest in, or relationships with, any special-purpose entities. For additional information regarding our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Part I, Item 1, Note 9, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Additional information regarding our indebtedness, including information about availability under our revolving credit facility and the principal repayment terms, interest rates, covenants and other key terms of our outstanding indebtedness, is included in Part I, Item 1, Note 7, Debt, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part II, Item 8, Note 6, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended June 29, 2018.
Flash Ventures sells to and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which we guarantee half or all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement. The lease agreements contain customary covenants for Japanese lease facilities. In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including us. As of March 29, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants under these Japanese lease facilities. See Part I, Item 1, Note 9, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Parties, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information regarding Flash Ventures. 
In the normal course of business, we enter into purchase orders with suppliers for the purchase of components used to manufacture our products. These purchase orders generally cover forecasted component supplies needed for production during the next quarter, are recorded as a liability upon receipt of the components, and generally may be changed or canceled at any time prior to shipment of the components. In addition, we have entered into long-term purchase agreements with various component suppliers, containing minimum quantity requirements. However, the dollar amount of the purchases may depend on the specific products ordered, achievement of pre-defined quantity or quality specifications or future price negotiations. The estimated related minimum purchase requirements are included in “Purchase obligations” in the table above. We have also entered into long-term purchase agreements with various component suppliers that carry fixed volumes and pricing which obligate us to make certain future purchases, contingent on certain conditions of performance, quality and technology of the vendor’s components. These arrangements are included under “Purchase obligations” in the table above.
The 2017 Act allows for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax of $1.25 billion to be payable over an 8-year period without interest. The payments are due with 8% of the tax to be paid in each of the first five years, 15% in the 6th year, 20% in the 7th year, and 25% in the 8th year. As of March 29, 2019, total payments of $150 million have been made towards the mandatory deemed repatriation tax of $1.25 billion for a remaining net tax liability owed of $1.10 billion. For additional information regarding our estimate of the total tax liability for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense (Benefit), of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
As of March 29, 2019, the liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties) was approximately $708 million. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of March 29, 2019 was approximately $120 million. Of these amounts, approximately $717 million could result in potential cash payments. We are not able to provide a reasonable estimate of the timing of future tax payments related to these obligations. For additional information regarding our total tax liability for unrecognized tax benefits, see Part I, Item 1, Note 11, Income Tax Expense (Benefit), of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to moderate our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates underlying our variable rate debt. For a description of our current interest rate swaps, see Part I, Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We purchase foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. For a description of our current foreign exchange contract commitments, see Part I, Item 3, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Part I, Item 1, Note 6, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Such indemnification agreements may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. Historically, we have not incurred material costs as a result of obligations under these agreements.
Our Board of Directors previously authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of our common stock. On July 25, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new $5.00 billion share repurchase program that is effective through July 25, 2023, replacing all prior programs. For the three months ended March 29, 2019, we did not make any stock repurchases. For the nine months ended March 29, 2019, we repurchased 0.8 million shares for a total cost of $61 million under the previous authorization and 7.6 million shares for a total cost of $502 million under the new authorization. Therefore, our stock repurchases under all stock repurchase authorizations in effect for the nine months ended March 29, 2019 totaled $563 million. The remaining amount available to be repurchased under our current stock repurchase program as of March 29, 2019 was $4.50 billion. Repurchases under the stock repurchase program may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and may be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan. We expect stock repurchases to be funded principally by operating cash flows. 
Since the first quarter of 2013, we have issued a quarterly cash dividend. During the nine months ended March 29, 2019, we declared aggregate cash dividends of $1.50 per share on our outstanding common stock totaling $436 million, of which $146 million was paid on April 15, 2019.
On May 2, 2019, we declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share of our common stock to our shareholders of record as of June 28, 2019, which will be paid on July 15, 2019. We may modify, suspend, or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.
We have prepared the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and shareholders’ equity. We have adopted accounting policies and practices that are generally accepted in the industry in which we operate. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 
There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the quarter ended March 29, 2019.
There were no repurchases of shares of our common stock during the quarter ended March 29, 2019.
