The accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth in Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in the Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
These Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017.
The results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.
Company management has made estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of certain assets and liabilities in conformity with U.S. GAAP.
These estimates and assumptions have been applied using methodologies that are consistent throughout the periods presented.
However, actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
2015‑11, “Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory” (“ASU 2015‑11”), which dictates that an entity should measure inventory within the scope of this update at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.
The Company’s adoption of ASU 2015‑11 did not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
On September 15, 2017, the Company acquired substantially all the assets of Tegile Systems, Inc., a provider of flash and persistent-memory storage solutions for enterprise data center applications.
These acquisitions are primarily intended to help meet the evolving needs of customers, while driving long-term growth for the Company's existing data center and client solution products over the long term.
The aggregate purchase price of acquisitions during the nine months ended March 30, 2018 was $99 million in cash, with net assets acquired primarily consisting of developed technology and other intangible assets, of which $61 million was allocated to goodwill.
Goodwill is primarily attributable to the benefits the Company expects to derive from diversifying product offerings to its Data Center Devices and Solutions and Client Solutions end markets as well as the acquired workforce.
Goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes because the acquisitions were structured as asset acquisitions but accounted for as business combinations.
Concurrent with these acquisitions, the Company received $36 million in proceeds on previously outstanding notes receivable due from these acquired entities.
During the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the expenses incurred by the Company related to these acquisitions were immaterial and are primarily included within Selling, General and Administrative expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Revenues and earnings related to these acquisitions was not material.
The long-term portion of the warranty accrual classified in Other liabilities was $110 million and $125 million as of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Note 4.Fair Value Measurements and Investments
Level 1.Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2.Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3.Inputs that are unobservable for the asset or liability and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company had no transfers of financial assets and liabilities between Level 1 and Level 2.
The Company determined available-for-sale securities had no material other-than-temporary impairments in the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 or March 31, 2017.
The carrying value of the Company’s revolving credit facility approximates its fair value given the revolving nature of the balance and the variable market interest rate.
For financial instruments where the carrying value (which includes principal adjusted for any unamortized issuance costs, and discounts or premiums) differs from fair value (which is based on quoted market prices), the following table represents the related carrying value and fair value for each of the Company’s outstanding financial instruments.
Each of the financial instruments presented below was categorized as Level 2 for all periods presented, based on the frequency of trading immediately prior to the end of the third quarter of 2018 and the fourth quarter of 2017, respectively.
From time to time, the Company enters into certain strategic investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives.
The Company reports these investments under the cost method of accounting as it does not have a significant influence over the operations of these investees.
These investments consist of debt and equity securities of privately-held companies that do not have a readily determinable fair value and are carried at historical cost.
The Company assesses these securities for indications of other-than-temporary impairments.
During the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges and losses related to the sale of these cost method investments of $9 million and $15 million, respectively, which were included in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
During the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges and losses related to the sale of these cost method investments of $7 million and $11 million, respectively.
As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, these investments aggregated $28 million and $91 million, respectively, and are reported under Other non-current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In addition, the Company had outstanding interest rate swaps that were designated as cash flow hedges.
The Company determined the ineffective portion and the amount excluded for effectiveness testing associated with its cash flow hedges to be immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
As of March 30, 2018, the amount of existing net gains related to cash flow hedges recorded in AOCI was $28 million.
Over the next twelve months, the Company expects to reclassify the majority of this amount into earnings.
In addition, as of March 30, 2018, the Company did not have any foreign exchange forward contracts with credit-risk-related contingent features.
A change in the fair value of non-designated hedges is recognized in earnings in the period incurred and is reported as a component of Other expense, net.
The changes in fair value on these contracts were immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
The effective portion of the change in fair value of this designated cash flow hedge is deferred in Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, with any ineffective portion recognized in Other income (expense), net.
Under certain provisions and conditions within agreements with counterparties to the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company has the right of offset associated with the Company’s foreign exchange forward contracts and is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the effect of rights of offset was not material and the Company did not offset or net the fair value amounts of derivative instruments in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange forward contract currency gains and losses were not material to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
The 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by certain material domestic subsidiaries of the Company.
The 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes and as of March 30, 2018, issuance costs of $20 million remained unamortized.
The 2024 Convertible Notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by certain material domestic subsidiaries of the Company.
The 2024 Convertible Notes are convertible into cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination thereof at an initial conversion price of approximately $121.91 per share of common stock.
Prior to November 1, 2023, holders may convert their 2024 Convertible Notes based on variations in market price of the Company’s common stock in relation to the conversion price or the trading price of the 2024 Convertible Notes or upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.
On or after February 5, 2021, the Company may redeem all or part of the 2024 Convertible Notes, at its option, if the market price of the Company’s stock achieves certain levels.
The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the 2024 Convertible Notes.
The 2024 Convertible Notes debt issuance costs were approximately $18 million, of which $15 million was allocated to the debt component and $3 million was allocated to equity.
The debt discount and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2024 Convertible Notes.
As of March 30, 2018, debt discount and issuance cost of $176 million remained unamortized.
In February 2018, the Company entered into an amendment to the credit agreement entered into on April 29, 2016 (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”), to provide for, among other things, (i) the issuance of a new $5.02 billion of term loan A-1 due 2023 (the “Term Loan A-1”), (ii) a new $2.25 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2023 (the “Revolving Facility”), which replaced the Company’s prior $1.50 billion revolving credit facility maturing in 2021, (iii) modifications to the restrictive and financial maintenance covenants, to provide more flexibility and increased incremental debt capacity, (iv) amendments of the applicable varying interest rate margins to be based on the Company’s corporate credit ratings as described in the indenture, and (v) upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, a release of the security and guarantees as well as further covenant flexibility and increased incremental debt capacity.
The Term Loan A-1 bears interest at a per annum rate equal to, at the Company’s option, either an adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) rate, subject to a 0.00% floor, plus an applicable margin varying from 1.125% to 2.000% or a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.125% to 1.000%, in each case depending on the Company’s corporate credit ratings.
Principal payments are due in quarterly installments of (i) 0.625% per quarter from June 2018 through March 2019 and (ii) 1.25% per quarter from June 2019 through December 2022, with the remaining balance payable on February 27, 2023.
The Term Loan A-1 issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the loan, and as of March 30, 2018, issuance costs of $9 million remained unamortized.
Proceeds of $500 million were drawn under the Revolving Facility and were used to fund a voluntary partial prepayment of the Company’s existing U.S. Dollar denominated term B-3 loans (“U.S.
Loans under the Revolving Facility bear interest, at the Company’s option, at either LIBOR plus an applicable margin varying from 1.125% to 2.000% or a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.125% to 1.000%, in each case depending on the Company’s corporate credit ratings.
The Company will also pay an unused commitment fee on the Revolving Facility ranging from 0.120% to 0.350% based on the Company’s corporate credit ratings as described in the indenture, with an initial fee of 0.250%.
The Term Loan A-1 and the Revolving Facility are unconditionally guaranteed by each of the guarantors under the Credit Agreement and are secured on a first-priority basis (subject to permitted liens) by a lien on the same collateral that secure the other loans under the Credit Agreement; provided that the security and guarantees will be automatically suspended upon certain conditions.
During the three months ended March 30, 2018, the Company completed the redemption of all of its outstanding 7.375% senior secured notes due 2023 in the aggregate principal amount of $1.875 billion (the “2023 Notes”) and the tender offer and redemption and settlement of all of its outstanding 10.50% senior unsecured notes due 2024 in the aggregate principal amount of $3.350 billion (the “2024 Notes” and collectively with the 2023 Notes, the “Redeemed Notes”), including an aggregate of $720 million of “make-whole” and tender premiums required for the tender offer of the 2024 Notes and the optional redemption of the Redeemed Notes in accordance with the applicable indentures and accrued interest through the applicable redemption dates.
Additionally, in November 2017, the Company borrowed $2.96 billion under U.S.
Principal payments on U.S.
Term Loan B-3 of 0.25% are due quarterly and began on December 29, 2017 with the balance due on April 29, 2023.
As a result, the Company is not required to make principal payments on the U.S.
Term Loan B-3 issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the loan and as of March 30, 2018, issuance costs of $3 million remained unamortized.
In connection with the settlements of the various debt instruments described above, the Company recognized an aggregate loss on debt extinguishment of $896 million for the nine months ended March 30, 2018, consisting of $720 million of “make-whole” and tender premiums and $176 million of unamortized issuance costs, of which $894 million was incurred in the three months ended March 30, 2018.
In the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017, the Company incurred losses on the extinguishment of debt of $7 million and $274 million, respectively.
The Credit Agreement requires the Company to comply with certain financial covenants, such as a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio.
As of March 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants.
In addition, the Credit Agreement requires the Company to comply with customary covenants that limit or restrict the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to incur liens and indebtedness; make certain restricted payments, acquisitions, investments, loans and guarantees; and enter into certain transactions with affiliates, mergers and consolidations.
In addition, the indentures governing the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes and the 2024 Convertible Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of their assets; create liens; and incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness.
The Company has pension and other post-retirement benefit plans in various countries.
All pension and other post-retirement benefit plans outside of the Company’s Japanese defined benefit pension plan (the “Japanese Plan”) are immaterial to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The expected long-term rate of return on the Japanese Plan assets is 2.5%.
In connection with a settlement agreement with Toshiba in December 2017, the Company entered into a facility agreement (“Y6 Facility Agreement”) with TMC related to the construction and operation of a new 300-millimeter wafer fabrication facility in Yokkaichi, Japan, referred to as “Fab 6”, which is primarily intended to provide cleanroom space to continue the transition of the parties’ existing 2D NAND manufacturing capacity to BiCS 3D NAND manufacturing capacity.
Under the Y6 Facility Agreement, the Company is committed to 50% of Fab 6’s start-up costs, as well as 50% of the joint ventures’ portion of an upcoming investment in manufacturing equipment for Fab 6.
The Company makes, or will make, loans to Flash Ventures to fund equipment investments for new process technologies and additional wafer capacity.
The Company aggregates its Flash Ventures’ notes receivable into one class of financing receivables due to the similar ownership interest and common structure in each Flash Venture entity.
For all reporting periods presented, no loans were past due and no loan impairments were recorded.
The Company assesses financing receivable credit quality through financial and operational reviews of the borrower and creditworthiness, including credit rating agency ratings, of significant investors of the borrower, where material or known.
There were no impairments for credit worthiness in the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
As of March 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, the Company had accounts payable balances due to Flash Ventures of $282 million and $206 million, respectively.
The Company’s maximum reasonably estimable loss exposure (excluding lost profits) as a result of its involvement with Flash Ventures, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at March 30, 2018, is presented below.
Investments in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen, and the maximum possible loss exposure excludes any cumulative translation adjustment due to revaluation from the Japanese yen to the U.S. dollar.
The Company is not able to estimate its total wafer purchase commitment obligation beyond its rolling three-month purchase commitment because the price is determined by reference to the future cost of producing the semiconductor wafers.
In addition, the Company is committed to fund 49.9% to 50.0% of each Flash Ventures entity’s investments to the extent that each Flash Ventures entity’s operating cash flow is insufficient to fund these investments.
Flash Ventures sells and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions a portion of its tools and has entered into equipment lease agreements of which the Company guarantees half or all of the outstanding obligations under each lease agreement.
In addition to containing customary events of default related to Flash Ventures that could result in an acceleration of Flash Ventures’ obligations, the lease agreements contain acceleration clauses for certain events of default related to the guarantors, including the Company.
The following table presents the Company’s portion of the remaining guarantee obligations under the Flash Ventures’ lease facilities in both Japanese yen and U.S. dollar-equivalent, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate as of March 30, 2018.
The Company and TMC have agreed to mutually contribute to, and indemnify each other and Flash Ventures for, environmental remediation costs or liability resulting from Flash Ventures’ manufacturing operations in certain circumstances.
The Company has not made any indemnification payments, nor recorded any indemnification receivables, under any such agreements.
Compensation cost related to unvested stock options, restricted stock unit awards (“RSU”), performance-based restricted stock unit awards (“PSU”) and the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) will generally be amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining average service period.
RSUs and PSUs are generally settled in an equal number of shares of the Company’s common stock at the time of vesting of the units.
The Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) has authorized $5.00 billion for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock.
The stock repurchase program is effective until February 3, 2020.
The Company had made repurchases aggregating $2.88 billion prior to fiscal 2018.
The Company repurchased 1.78 million shares for a total cost of $155 million during the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018.
The remaining amount available to be purchased under the Company’s stock repurchase program as of March 30, 2018 was $1.97 billion.
During the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company declared aggregate cash dividends of $1.50 per share on its outstanding common stock totaling $446 million, of which $296 million was paid during the period and $150 million was paid on April 16, 2018.
On May 2, 2018, the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.50 per share to shareholders of record as of June 29, 2018, which will be paid on July 16, 2018.
The Company may modify, suspend or cancel its cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.
Note 10.Income Tax Expense (Benefit)
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Act”) was enacted on December 22, 2017.
For the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company has not finalized the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act.
However, consistent with applicable SEC guidance, the Company has made a reasonable estimate of the effects on the Company’s existing deferred tax balances and the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax required by the 2017 Act and has recognized a provisional income tax expense of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax and a provisional income tax benefit of $79 million related to the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the nine months ended March 30, 2018.
As the Company finalizes the accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the 2017 Act during a one-year measurement period permitted by applicable SEC guidance, the Company expects to reflect adjustments to the recorded provisional amounts and record additional tax effects of the 2017 Act.
Additional information regarding the significant provisions of the 2017 Act that are expected to impact the Company is provided below.
The provisional income tax expense of $9 million and income tax benefit of $79 million recorded for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively, related to the re-measurements of the Company’s deferred tax balances are based on the rates at which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are expected to reverse in the current and future fiscal years, which are generally 29% and 22%, respectively.
However, the Company is still analyzing certain aspects of the 2017 Act and refining the calculations, which could potentially affect the measurement of these balances or potentially give rise to new deferred tax amounts.
The Company is also analyzing the impact of the 2017 Act to the existing valuation allowance assessments from both a federal and state tax perspective, which could potentially affect the realizability of the existing deferred tax assets.
In calculating the provisional amount, the Company utilized an estimate of the expected reversals of certain tax assets and liabilities, which will be revised in future quarters during the one-year measurement period as additional information becomes available.
This tax is based on the amount of foreign earnings held in cash and other specified assets which are taxed at 15.5% and 8%, respectively, and is payable over an 8-year period.
For the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company recorded a provisional amount for the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability of $1.66 billion for foreign subsidiaries and $132 million of this amount is classified as a current tax liability.
The calculation of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax liability is provisional and based upon preliminary estimates of post-1986 earnings and profits.
In addition, the mandatory deemed repatriation tax is based on a provisional amount of foreign earnings held in cash and other specified assets, which the Company expects will require additional clarifying guidance from U.S. Treasury.
As such, the provisional amount may change during the one-year measurement period when the Company finalizes the calculation of post-1986 foreign earnings and profits and the amount of foreign earnings held in cash or other specified assets.
Although the mandatory deemed repatriation tax has removed U.S. federal taxes on distributions to the U.S., the Company continues to evaluate the expected manner of recovery to determine whether or not to continue to assert indefinite reinvestment on a part or all the foreign undistributed earnings.
This requires the Company to re-evaluate the existing short and long-term capital allocation policies in light of the 2017 Act and calculate the tax cost that is incremental to the deemed repatriation tax (e.g., foreign withholding, state income taxes, and additional U.S. tax on currency transaction gains or losses) of repatriating cash to the U.S.
While the provisional tax expense for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 is based upon an assumption that foreign undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested, the Company’s plan may change upon the completion of long-term capital allocation plans in light of the 2017 Act and completion of the calculation of the incremental tax effects on the repatriation of foreign undistributed earnings.
In the event the Company determines not to continue to assert the permanent reinvestment of part or all of foreign undistributed earnings, such a determination could result in the accrual and payment of additional foreign, state and local taxes.
The Company has not progressed sufficiently in the analysis of this provision to make an election either to account for the effects of this provision either as a component of future income tax expense in the period the tax arises or as a component of deferred taxes on the related investments.
Accordingly, no deferred tax assets and liabilities have been established for timing differences between foreign U.S. GAAP income and foreign earnings and profits that would be expected to reverse under the new minimum tax in future years.
Additionally, the Company has not yet completed the calculation of post-1986 foreign earnings and profits for the mandatory repatriation tax, which would be the starting point for the measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities in order to record any provisional amounts.
Under the 2017 Act, the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% is effective January 1, 2018, requiring companies to use a blended rate for their fiscal 2018 tax year by applying a pro-rated percentage of the number of days before and after the January 1, 2018 effective date.
This results in the use of an estimated annual effective tax rate of approximately 28% for the Company’s U.S. federal corporate tax rate for fiscal year 2018.
The U.S. federal corporate tax rate was reduced from 35% to the blended tax rate of 28% for fiscal year 2018.
For fiscal year 2019 and beyond, the Company will utilize the enacted U.S. federal corporate tax rate of 21%.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% include discrete effects consisting of an income tax benefit of $211 million from deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from the debt financing transactions.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% are related to the net charge of $1.66 billion for the one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax, offset in part by an income tax benefit related to the re-measurement of deferred taxes as required by the 2017 Act and deductible make-whole premiums and the write-off of unamortized issuance costs from the debt financing transactions.
The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 28% are current year tax credits, and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030 and windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards.
The windfall tax benefits are a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09, which requires the Company to now recognize $46 million and $73 million of windfall tax benefits related to vesting and exercises of stock-based awards as a component of its income tax expense for the three and nine months ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
The windfall tax benefits for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 were recorded within shareholders’ equity.
The primary drivers for the difference between the effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 35% include discrete effects consisting of income tax expense from the integration of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) of $91 million and a valuation allowance on acquired tax attributes of $111 million, partially offset by income tax benefit from deductible debt issuance costs, debt discounts and prepayment fees from the debt extinguishment of $98 million.
The primary drivers for the remaining difference between the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2017 and the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 35% are these discrete items, the current year generation of tax credits and tax holidays in Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that expire at various dates during fiscal years 2018 through 2030.
During the nine months ended March 30, 2018, the Company recorded a net decrease of $17 million in its liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties).
As of March 30, 2018, the Company’s liability for unrecognized tax benefits (excluding accrued interest and penalties) was approximately $505 million.
Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of March 30, 2018 was approximately $105 million.
The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) previously completed its field examination of the Company’s federal income tax returns for fiscal years 2006 through 2009 and proposed certain adjustments.
The Company received Revenue Agent Reports from the IRS that seek to increase the Company’s U.S. taxable income, which would result in additional federal tax expense totaling $795 million, subject to interest.
The issues in dispute relate primarily to transfer pricing with the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and intercompany payable balances.
The Company disagrees with the proposed adjustments and in September 2015, filed a protest with the IRS Appeals Office and received the IRS rebuttal in July 2016.
Meetings with the IRS Appeals Office began in March 2017.
The Company believes that its tax positions are properly supported and will vigorously contest the position taken by the IRS.
In September 2015, the IRS commenced an examination of the Company’s fiscal years 2010 through 2012.
The Company believes that adequate provision has been made for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations.
However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty.
If any issues addressed in the Company’s tax examinations are resolved in a manner not consistent with management’s expectations, the Company could be required to adjust its provision for income taxes in the period such resolution occurs.
As of March 30, 2018, it was not possible to estimate the amount of change, if any, in the unrecognized tax benefits that is reasonably possible within the next twelve months.
Any significant change in the amount of the Company’s liability for unrecognized tax benefits would most likely result from additional information or settlements relating to the examination of the Company’s tax returns.
Note 11.Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share
Diluted income (loss) per common share is computed using net income (loss) and the weighted average number of common shares and potentially dilutive common shares outstanding during the period.
Potentially dilutive common shares include dilutive outstanding employee stock options, RSUs and PSUs, and rights to purchase shares of common stock under the Company’s ESPP.
In 2016, the Company initiated a set of actions relating to the restructuring plan associated with the integration of substantial portions of its HGST and WD subsidiaries (“Restructuring Plan 2016”).
In addition to the amounts recognized under Restructuring Plan 2016 as presented above, the Company recognized $9 million and $37 million of accelerated depreciation on facility assets in cost of revenue during the nine months ended March 30, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively.
Unless otherwise stated below, for each of the matters described below, the Company has either recorded an accrual for losses that are probable and reasonably estimable or has determined that, while a loss is reasonably possible (including potential losses in excess of the amounts accrued by the Company), a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss or range of possible losses with respect to the claim or in excess of amounts already accrued by the Company cannot be made.
The actual outcome of such matters could differ materially from management’s estimates.
In May 2016, Lambeth Magnetic Structures, LLC (“Lambeth”) filed a complaint with the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania against WD and certain of its subsidiaries alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No.
The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and injunctive relief.
The ’988 patent, entitled “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods,” allegedly relates to a magnetic material structure for hard disk drive devices.
The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
In July 2010, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. (“Samsung”) filed an action against Panasonic Corporation (“Panasonic”) and SD-3C LLC (“SD-3C”) with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that the defendants violated federal antitrust laws and California antitrust and unfair competition laws relating to the licensing practices and operations of SD-3C.
The complaint seeks damages, restitution, injunctive and declaratory relief, and fees and costs.
SanDisk is not a defendant in this case, but it established SD-3C along with Panasonic and Toshiba Corporation (“Toshiba”), and the complaint includes various factual allegations concerning SanDisk.
As a member of SD-3C, SanDisk could be responsible for a portion of any monetary award.
Other requested relief, if granted, could result in a loss of revenue to SanDisk.
In September 2016, the District Court stayed the litigation pending the outcome of an ongoing arbitration between Samsung and Toshiba.
The District Court denied the motion to dismiss without prejudice to refiling after the stay is lifted.
The arbitration between Samsung and Toshiba was concluded in May 2017.
In October 2017, the District Court issued an order directing Samsung and Toshiba to seek clarification from the arbitration panel regarding certain aspects of its decision.
In April 2018, Samsung voluntarily dismissed its case against Panasonic and SD-3C with prejudice.
The complaint asserts claims under federal antitrust laws and California antitrust and unfair competition laws, as well as common law claims.
The complaint seeks damages, restitution, injunctive relief, and fees and costs.
The plaintiffs allege that the defendants conspired to artificially inflate the royalty costs associated with manufacturing SD cards, which in turn allegedly caused the plaintiffs to pay higher prices for SD cards.
The allegations are similar to and incorporate allegations in Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. v. Panasonic Corp., et al., described above.
In November 2015, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ federal law claims.
Discovery is presently stayed until after completion of the pleading stage.
The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
In December 2011, the German Central Organization for Private Copying Rights (Zentralstelle für private Überspielungsrechte) (“ZPÜ”), an organization consisting of several copyright collecting societies, instituted arbitration proceedings against WD’s German subsidiary (“WD Germany”) before the Copyright Arbitration Board (“CAB”) claiming copyright levies for multimedia hard drives, external hard drives and network hard drives sold or introduced into commerce in Germany by WD Germany from January 2008 through December 2010.
In its ruling, the Higher Court declared that WD Germany must pay certain levies on certain products that it sold in Germany between January 2008 and December 2010.
The judgment specified levy amounts on certain products sold from January 2008 through December 2010 and directed WD Germany to disclose applicable sales data to ZPÜ.
ZPÜ and WD Germany filed appeals with the German Federal Court of Justice in February 2015.
In March 2017, the German Federal Court of Justice rendered a judgment affirming ZPÜ’s claim concerning the disclosure of WD Germany’s sales data regarding HDDs sold between January 2008 and December 2010.
The German Federal Court of Justice also set aside the Higher Court’s decision on the levy amounts and referred the case back to the Higher Court for further fact finding and decision on the levy amounts.
The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
In December 2014, ZPÜ submitted a pleading to the CAB seeking copyright levies for multimedia hard drives, external hard drives and network hard drives sold or introduced into commerce in Germany by WD Germany between January 2012 and December 2013.
The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.
The Company has recorded an accrual for German copyright levies in an amount that is not material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows; however, it is reasonably possible that the Company could incur losses totaling up to $189 million, inclusive of amounts accrued, if it does not prevail in this matter.
In the normal course of business, the Company is subject to other legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims.
Although the ultimate aggregate amount of probable monetary liability or financial impact with respect to these other matters is subject to many uncertainties, management believes that any monetary liability or financial impact to the Company from these other matters, individually and in the aggregate, would not be material to the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
However, any monetary liability and financial impact to the Company from these other matters could differ materially from the Company’s expectations.
Note 14.Separate Financial Information of Guarantor Subsidiaries
The 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis, subject to certain customary guarantor release conditions, by certain 100% owned material domestic subsidiaries of the Company (or the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”).
The guarantee by a Guarantor Subsidiary will be released in the event of (i) the release of a Guarantor Subsidiary from its guarantee of indebtedness under the Credit Agreement or other indebtedness that would have required the Guarantor Subsidiary to guarantee the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes, (ii) the sale, issuance or other disposition of capital stock of a Guarantor Subsidiary such that it is no longer a restricted subsidiary under the indenture governing the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes, (iii) the sale of all or substantially all of a Guarantor Subsidiary’s assets, (iv) the Company’s exercise of its defeasance options under the indenture governing the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes, (v) the dissolution or liquidation of a Guarantor Subsidiary or (vi) the sale of all the equity interest in a Guarantor Subsidiary.
The Company’s other domestic subsidiaries and its foreign subsidiaries (collectively, the “Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries”) do not guarantee the 2026 Senior Unsecured Notes.
The following condensed consolidating financial information reflects the summarized financial information of Western Digital Corporation (“Parent”), the Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis, and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis.
For a description of our legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 1, Note 13, Legal Proceedings, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which is incorporated by reference in response to this item.
The risks and uncertainties discussed below update and supersede the risks and uncertainties previously disclosed in Part II, Item 1A of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 29, 2017.
•Volatile Demand and Supplier Risk.
Our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products.
In addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products.
If negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue.
Likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products.
•Restructuring Activities.
We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers.
In addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances.
As a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable.
We could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances.
Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss.
A significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition.
•Impairment Charges.
We test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable.
We rely substantially on our business ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, Toshiba Memory Corporation (“TMC”), for the supply of NAND-flash memory and the development of NAND-flash technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results.
We are dependent on our ventures with Toshiba’s wholly owned subsidiary, TMC, to develop and manufacture NAND-flash memory products for our NAND-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of SanDisk Corporation (“SanDisk”) in May 2016, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger”), is dependent on the continued success of Flash Ventures.
The majority of our NAND-flash memory is supplied by Flash Ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes.
A failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in Flash Ventures.
Growth of our NAND-flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share, which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results.
We are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of Flash Ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from Flash Ventures.
Furthermore, purchase orders placed with Flash Ventures and under the foundry arrangements with TMC for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled.
In addition, we partner with TMC on the development of NAND-flash technology, including the next technology transitions of NAND-flash, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of Flash Ventures.
Flash Ventures requires significant investments by both TMC and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3D NAND, and capacity expansions.
Lease financings guaranteed by or on behalf of both TMC and us are not currently available to Flash Ventures on favorable terms and we are pursuing alternative forms of financing to fund our share of investments, which might not continue to be accessible.
In addition, the financing arrangements that TMC’s purchaser may enter into in connection with its purchase of TMC could impose limitations on Flash Ventures’ ability to enter into lease financings.
To the extent that lease financings for Flash Ventures are not available on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments.
If TMC does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in Flash Ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced.
As announced by Toshiba, TMC plans to construct a new wafer fabrication facility in Iwate, Japan to provide additional cleanroom space for the manufacture of 3D NAND.
Although we intend to enter into agreements with TMC in due course to participate in the new Iwate facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so.
If we are unable to extend our partnership with TMC to the Iwate facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive NAND-flash memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results.
Integrating SanDisk’s operations with ours may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the Merger may not be realized.
The success of our acquisition of SanDisk, including anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses and culture of SanDisk into our company.
It is possible that the integration process will take longer than anticipated.
In addition, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, ongoing diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors, partners and employees.
If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.
In addition, the actual cost savings of the Merger could be less than anticipated.
Additionally, the integration of SanDisk’s operations into our operations may also increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective.
As of March 30, 2018, our total indebtedness was $11.41 billion in aggregate principal, and we had $1.75 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility.
Our bank debt also contains a variable interest rate component based on our corporate credit ratings, which could result in increased interest rates and debt service obligations if our ratings were to decline.
If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, causing an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, the debt holders could accelerate the related debt and that may result in the acceleration of any other debt, leases or other obligations to which a cross acceleration or cross-default provision applies.
If we are required to repay our indebtedness before the applicable due dates, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such indebtedness and we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue common stock or other equity securities.
We may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all.
Further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness.
Refinancing our indebtedness may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs.
In addition to our credit ratings impacting the interest rate on our current debt, our ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital.
Our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations.
There can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future.
We may from time to time seek to further refinance our substantial indebtedness by issuing additional shares of our common stock in one or more securities offerings.
These securities offerings may dilute our existing shareholders, reduce the value of our common stock, or both.
Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings diluting and potentially reducing the value of our common stock.
Demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this Item 1A as our “products”, depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers (“PCs”) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems.
The demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period.
The price of NAND-flash memory is influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, conversion of industry DRAM capacity to NAND, conversion of 2D NAND capacity to 3D NAND or other actions taken by us or our competitors.
The storage market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and significant reductions in price.
In addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features.
Additionally, some of our competitors may be able to use their broader portfolio of products to win sales from us.
Further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our ASPs declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold.
Rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence.
The data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products.
The variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on these forecasts.
Further, for many of our OEMs utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate.
In addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors’ products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors.
As forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases.
In addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand.
Sales of computer systems, mobile devices, storage subsystems, gaming consoles and consumer electronics (“CE”) tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers’ demand for our products.
However, changes in seasonal and cyclical patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment.
There has been and continues to be a rapid growth in devices that do not contain a hard drive such as tablet computers and smart phones.
As tablet computers and smart phones provide many of the same capabilities as PCs, they have displaced or materially affected, and we expect will continue to displace or materially affect, the demand for PCs.
If we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include disk drives or alternative storage solutions that address these devices, even after our acquisition of SanDisk, demand for our products in these markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, global slowdown in the growth rate of mobile devices will also negatively impact our financial results.
The enterprise storage space is comprised of customers with long design, qualification and test cycles prior to sales.
Demand for our enterprise solutions from our hyperscale customers is correlated to large projects and expansions which can be sporadic, resulting in demand that is lumpy and less consistent than the consumer-driven demand for many of our solutions.
In addition, hyperscale companies may internally develop enterprise storage solutions that reduce the demand for our solutions.
•Cloud Computing.
Consumers traditionally have stored their data on their PC, often supplemented with personal external storage devices.
With cloud computing, applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider over a broadband Internet connection, potentially reducing or eliminating the need for, among other things, significant storage inside the accessing electronic device.
Demand for cloud computing solutions themselves may be volatile due to differing patterns of technology adoption and innovation, improved data storage efficiency by cloud computing service providers, and concerns about data protection by end users.
In some cases, products we manufacture for these markets are uniquely configured for a single customer’s application, creating a risk of obsolete inventory if anticipated demand is not actually realized.
In addition, rapid technological change in our industry increases the risk of inventory obsolescence.
•Macroeconomic Conditions.
In addition, demand in these areas also could be negatively impacted by developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management and the emergence of new technologies, such as data duplication, compression and storage virtualization.
Furthermore, our ability to accurately read and respond to market trends, such as trends relating to the Internet of Things (commonly referred to as “IoT”) or big data, could harm our results.
While sales to non-PC markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the PC market remain an important part of our business.
We believe that sales of PCs have declined due to fundamental changes in the PC market, including the growth of alternative mobile devices and the lengthening of product life cycles, and that further deterioration of the PC market may continue or accelerate, which could cause our operating results and financial condition to suffer.
Selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results.
Our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels.
We must successfully respond to the rapid change away from traditional advertising media, marketing and sales methods to the use of Internet media and advertising, particularly social media, and online sales, or our brand and retail sales could be negatively affected.
In addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the Internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation.
Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
We face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product.
In addition, the PC market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market.
During the three months ended March 30, 2018, 44% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers.
Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance.
Also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing.
Fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as mobile, social media, shopping and streaming media.
To remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points.
Our vertical integration of some of our products makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop products with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business.
We develop NAND-flash memory as well as other non-volatile memory technology through our partnership with TMC; we are also vertically integrated in a substantial portion of the recording heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we produce.
Consequently, for some of our products, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of technologies developed by other manufacturers.
We also may not effectively transition our design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers’ product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the products we manufacture.
Further, as a result of our vertical integration of some of our products, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated.
We are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves.
In addition, as a result of adverse labor rates or availability, we may be required to increase investments in automation, which may cause our capital expenditures to increase.
Advantages could be in price, capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, industry standards or formats, brand and marketing, or other attributes.
A competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success of our business.
The Chinese government and various agencies, state-owned or affiliated enterprises and investment funds are making significant investments to promote China’s domestic semiconductor industry consistent with the government’s stated national policy objectives.
If we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in China or non-Chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with Chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer.
The data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, mergers and decisions by industry players to exit the industry.
Further consolidation across the industry, including by our competitors who are vertically integrated with NAND-flash memory, may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage.
Some of our competitors with diversified business units outside of storage products, may, over extended periods of time, sell storage products at prices that we cannot profitably match.
Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside of storage products.
Because they do not depend solely on sales of storage products to achieve profitability, they may sell storage products at lower prices and operate their storage business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall.
We regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers, and the product qualification process may be lengthy for some customers, including those in enterprise storage.
Once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced.
Even if our products meet customer specifications, our sales to these customers are dependent upon the customers choosing our products over those of our competitors and purchasing our products in sufficient volume, our ability to supply our products in sufficient quantity and in a timely manner and, with respect to OEM partners, the OEMs’ ability to create, market and successfully sell products containing our solutions.
We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years.
We test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means.
However, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market.
Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall.
Product recalls can be expensive to implement.
As part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product.
Moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement.
If an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure.
In addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers’ products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our OEM and original design manufacturers (“ODM”) customers.
We record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized.
We may incur additional expenses if our warranty provision do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise.
Certain of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third party content and user-generated data stored on our products.
In addition, third-party components or applications that we incorporate or use in our products may contain defects in design or manufacturing that could unexpectedly result in epidemic failures, security vulnerabilities or performance issues and subject us to liability.
•changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers.
Because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components, sub-assemblies, testing, equipment, consumables, raw materials, and logistics, a supplier’s inability, unwillingness, or failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us can adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results.
We depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), preamps, controller, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing.
We also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products.
In addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world.
Many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers.
We are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently.
Our supply base has experienced industry consolidation.
Where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation is enhanced.
Some of our suppliers may be competitors in other areas of our business, which could lead to difficulties in price negotiations or meeting our supply requirements.
From time to time, our suppliers have experienced difficulty meeting our requirements.
If we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, we may not be able to meet demand for our products.
We do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers and, therefore, we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products.
We are not able to directly control product delivery schedules or quality assurance.
Furthermore, we manufacture on a turnkey basis with some of our suppliers.
In these arrangements, we do not have visibility and control of our suppliers’ inventories of purchased parts necessary to build our products or of the progress of our products through their assembly line.
In addition, if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers, we may not be able to engage alternative suppliers who are able or willing to provide goods or services in sufficient quantities or at a cost acceptable to us.
Many of our products require preamps, controllers and firmware.
We rely on a limited number of third-party vendors to develop or supply preamps and controllers for many of our products.
Any delays or cost increases in developing or sourcing preamps, controllers or firmware, or incompatibility or quality issues relating to the controllers or firmware in our products, could harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers.
Substantially all of our flash memory is currently supplied by Flash Ventures.
Many of the risks that affect us also affect our supply base and Flash Ventures, including, but not limited to, having single site manufacturing locations and other facilities based in high risk regions of the world (for example, Flash Ventures is located in Yokkaichi, Japan), natural disasters, power shortages, macro and local economic conditions, shortages of commodity materials, proper management of technology transitions, geo-political risks, employee strikes and other labor actions, compliance with legal requirements, financial instability and exposure to IP and other litigation, including an injunction or other action that could delay shipping.
For example, if suppliers are facing increased costs due to the above risks, they may require us to enter into long-term volume agreements to shift the burden of fixed costs to us.
Further, we work closely with many of our suppliers and strategic partners to develop new technologies and, as a result, we may become subject to litigation from our suppliers, strategic partners or third parties.
Without a capable and financially stable supply base that has established appropriate relationships within the supply chain and has implemented business processes, strategies and risk management safeguards, we would be unable to develop our products, manufacture them in high volumes, and distribute them to our customers to execute our business plans effectively.
Some of our suppliers have also experienced a decline in financial performance.
In addition, moving to new technologies may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base.
Our success in new product areas may be dependent on our ability to develop close relationships with new suppliers, with preferential agreements.
Where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected.
In addition to an external supply base, we also rely on an internal supply chain of heads, media and media substrate, and we rely on our business ventures with TMC for the supply of NAND-flash memory.
for a review of some of the risks related to these supplies.
Price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, may negatively impact our operating results.
Shortages of critical components such as DRAM and NAND-flash memory, or materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs.
We or our suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, which are critical to the manufacture of components in our products from a number of countries, including the People’s Republic of China.
The government of China or any other nation may impose regulations (such as the recently announced trade and tariff actions), quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced.
Contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory.
To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs.
In addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices.
Some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components.
The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner.
3D NAND and any new manufacturing node may be more susceptible to manufacturing yield issues.
Manufacturing yield issues may not be identified during the development or production process or solved until an actual product is manufactured and tested, further increasing our costs.
Successful broad-based commercialization of one or more competing technologies, as well as differing strategies and timing with respect to the transition from 2D NAND to 3D NAND, could reduce the competitiveness and future revenue and profitability of our 2D NAND and 3D NAND-flash technologies.
With respect to HDDs, we announced that we will use microwave-assisted magnetic recording (MAMR) technology to increase HDD capacities.
Changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results.
Historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in storage technologies or standards, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate or manufacture the new technology or standard fails to remain competitive.
In addition, many companies, including some of our competitors, have developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies, including non-NAND technologies such as magnetoresistive random-access memory (MRAM), resistive random-access memory (ReRAM) and phase change, memory (PCM), as well as NAND based vertical or stacked 3D memories based on charge trap, floating gate and other cell architecture.
In embedded solutions, certain competitors have recently introduced a mobile storage standard referred to as Universal Flash Storage (UFS).
In the data center market, certain competitors have recently introduced a non-volatile memory express (NVMe) product that can be used as a substitute for our peripheral component interconnect express (PCIe) solutions.
In addition, a provider of processors and non-volatile memory solutions may be developing a new standard to attach ultra-low latency non-volatile memory to its processor memory bus, which it may choose not to license to its competitors, resulting in it being a single source provider of such non-volatile memory solutions.
The difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction.
Higher areal densities require existing recording head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk.
Historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density.
Increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost.
Additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new test equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gigabytes per platter.
As our older patents expire, and the coverage of our newer patents may be different, it may be more difficult to negotiate or renew favorable license agreement terms or a license agreement at all.
Our agreements may require us in certain instances to recognize license revenue related to a particular licensee all in one period instead of over time, which could create additional volatility in our licensing revenue.
If we license new IP from third parties or existing licensees, we may be required to pay license fees, royalty payments or offset existing license revenue.
We may enter into agreements with customers, suppliers or partners that could limit our ability to monetize our IP or could result in us being required to provide IP indemnification to our customers, suppliers or partners.
In addition, we may be subject to disputes, claims or other disagreements on the timing, amount or collection of royalties or license payments under our license agreements.
Our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with technology advancements.
We may be unsuccessful in anticipating and developing new and improved products for the client, enterprise and other storage markets in response to competing technologies.
If our hard drive, solid-state products and our storage solutions products fail to offer a superior value proposition to alternative storage products, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our business will suffer.
•the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling these new products.
In particular, as part of our growth strategy, we have made significant investments in active archive systems, which are designed to enable organizations to rapidly access massive long-term data stores.
We expect to continue to make significant investments in active archive systems.
Our active archive systems may fail to gain market acceptance, or the market for active archive systems may not grow as we anticipate.
We have also seen, and anticipate continuing to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment.
Additionally, we have announced our intention to transition future core, processor and controller development to the RISC-V architecture, which is an open source, data-centric compute architecture.
There is no guarantee that this transition will be successful or that the expected benefits of such transition will be realized.
Our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted.
As a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in California and throughout Asia.
The concentration of Flash Ventures in Yokkaichi, Japan, magnifies the risks of supply disruption.
The facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers’ suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout Asia and elsewhere.
Similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities, including access to or from these facilities by employees or logistics operators, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results.
For example, prior to the 2011 flooding in Thailand, all of our internal slider capacity and 60% of our hard drive manufacturing capacity was in Thailand.
As a result of the flooding in Thailand, our facilities were inundated and temporarily shut down.
In addition, the concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from localized labor unrest or other employment issues.
We may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies.
There can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially.
Due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage.
We maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost.
We depend upon TMC to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for Flash Ventures.
If TMC fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause Flash Ventures to breach various financing covenants.
If our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, security vulnerabilities or design defects, or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.
We experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks.
The technology infrastructure and systems of our suppliers, vendors and partners may also experience such attacks.
Cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any design flaws, bugs, security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism by third parties and sabotage.
In some instances, efforts to correct vulnerabilities or prevent attacks may reduce the performance of our computer systems and networks, which could negatively impact our business.
We believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities.
Our products are also targets for cyber attacks.
While some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers.
We have agreed with certain customers and strategic partners, including TMC, to undertake certain commitments to promote information security, and we may be liable to TMC or such other parties if we fail to meet our cyber security commitments.
In addition, our technology infrastructure and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures.
Further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products.
Breaches of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, IP, or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties.
As a result, we could experience additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation, and damage to our brand and reputation.
Manufacturing, marketing and selling our products globally subjects us to numerous risks.
•loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities.
Some of these risks, such as trade restrictions, higher tariffs and fees, import and export restrictions or loss of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities, could increase as a result of changes to policies, rules and regulations.
For example, in early 2018, the U.S. announced certain trade actions, including proposed tariff increases on a list of imported products.
Terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results.
Sudden disruptions to the availability of air transportation, or ocean or land freight lanes, could have an impact on our operations.
We generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight.
The sudden unavailability or disruption of air transportation, cargo operations or ocean, rail or truck freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently receive shipments from our suppliers or deliver our products.
We seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities.
In order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees.
We are also subject to certain covenants in our debt agreements that place limits on our ability to complete acquisitions and investments.
Even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all.
Acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness that would put additional pressure on liquidity.
Furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects.
Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace.
Global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees, to attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees, including employees from acquisitions, and to make decisions to realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies.
If we lose our existing key management, staff or skilled employees, or are unable to hire and integrate new key management, staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key management or staff, our operating results would likely be harmed.
We are subject to risks associated with loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities.
Portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met.
Although many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, we may not be able to meet such conditions.
On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States of America signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Act”), which includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings.
The 2017 Act significantly impacts our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 as a result of the deemed repatriation tax and may impact several other elements of our operating model.
Taxes due over a period of time as a result of the 2017 Act could be accelerated upon certain triggering events, including failure to pay such taxes when due.
The 2017 Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code and we expect to see future regulatory, administrative or legislative guidance.
We are involved in litigation, including cases involving our IP rights and those of others, antitrust and commercial matters, putative securities class action suits and other actions.
We are the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in others.
From time to time, we may also be the subject of inquiries, requests for information, investigations and actions by government and regulatory agencies regarding our businesses.
With or without merit, such matters can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can be very expensive and the expense can be unpredictable.
We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to the collection, use, sharing, and security of third-party data including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability, or loss of customers, loss of revenue, and reputational harm.
We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person.
In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations.
Our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings.
Global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The nature of our industry and its reliance on IP and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation.
This includes litigation relating to patent and other IP rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation.
IP risks increase when we enter into new markets where we have little or no IP protection as a defense against litigation.
The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of IP litigation increase the IP risks we face.
Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations.
Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly.
We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time.
We may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly.
It could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages.
Moreover, from time to time, we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged IP infringement.
The scope of such indemnity varies but may include indemnification for direct and consequential damages and expenses, including attorneys’ fees.
We may be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations.
Our reliance on IP and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors.
Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable IP such as our process technology.
We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.
There can be no assurance that our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged, or that they will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us.
It is also possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.
There are entities whom we believe may infringe our IP.
Enforcement of our rights often requires litigation.
Also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our IP to the same extent as do U.S. laws.
We rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information.
The success of our branded products depends in part on the positive image that consumers have of our brands.
The costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, data privacy, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers’ standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (“EICC”), could cause an increase in our operating costs.
We are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, data privacy, anti-corruption and tax practices.
These laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change.
We will need to ensure that we and our suppliers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs.
Legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products.
In addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future.
In connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the EICC, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics.
We are subject to the SEC’s diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use and source of gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten, commonly referred to as 3TG or conflict minerals, which are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies.
These rules could affect our ability to source components that contain 3TG, or 3TG generally, at acceptable prices and could impact the availability of such components or 3TG, since there may be only a limited number of suppliers of “conflict free” 3TG.
We could incur significant costs to the extent that we are required to make changes to products, processes, or sources of supply due to the foregoing requirements or pressures.
Conflict minerals legislation in Europe, Canada or any other jurisdiction, could increase these risks.
Violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers, customers or partners could harm our business.
•exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers’, customers’ or partners’ wrongdoings.
Flash Ventures’ equipment lease agreements contain covenants and other cancellation events, and cancellation of the leases would harm our business, operating results and financial condition.
Flash Ventures sells and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions (“lessors”) a portion of its equipment and Flash Ventures has entered into equipment lease agreements, most of which we and Toshiba each guarantee half of the total outstanding obligations and some of which we guarantee in full for our share of the Flash Ventures investment.
As of March 30, 2018, the portion of outstanding Flash Ventures’ lease obligations covered by our guarantees totaled approximately $1,109 million, based upon the Japanese yen to U.S. dollar exchange rate at March 30, 2018.
The equipment lease agreements contain covenants and cancellation events that are customary for Japanese lease facilities and that relate to Flash Ventures and each of the guarantors.
Cancellation events relating to the guarantors include, among other things, an assignment of all or a substantial part of a guarantor’s business, a bankruptcy event involving a guarantor and acceleration of other monetary debts of a guarantor above a specified threshold.
The breach of a covenant or the occurrence of another cancellation event could result in an acceleration of the Flash Ventures’ lease obligations.
If a cancellation event were to occur, Flash Ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the lessors, as well as other parties to the lease transactions, to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations.
Such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, as guarantor, increased interest rates or waiver fees.
We may modify, suspend or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time.
Moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends at historical levels could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results.
If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated.
Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated.
Additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in U.S. dollars from non-U.S. based vendors.
If the U.S. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin.
In addition, our purchases of NAND-flash memory from Flash Ventures and our investment in Flash Ventures are denominated in Japanese yen.
If the Japanese yen appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our cost of purchasing NAND-flash memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of Flash Ventures would increase, which could negatively impact our operating results.
If any of these events occur, they would have a negative impact on our operating results.
Prices for our products are substantially U.S. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the U.S.
In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the U.S.
We attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts.
However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure, and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place.
Further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions.
Operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk.
Hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions.
Increases in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs.
Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as ODMs, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our OEM customers.
Because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks.
Our agreements with our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk.
Additionally, as we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks.
Any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results.
•provisional estimates related to tax reform.
In addition, changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.
These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies.
Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities.
Given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances and investments.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, security types, and maturities.
These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets.
A material part of our investment portfolio consists of investment grade corporate securities, bank deposits, asset backed securities and U.S. government and agency securities.
If global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results.
A failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position.
In addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the U.S. at an additional tax cost.
We must comply with regulations regarding the conversion and distribution of funds earned in the local currencies of various countries.
If we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in these countries.
Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of June 30, 2017, in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.
