fls.txt
We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements.


item1.txt
Maximum potential future payments cannot be estimated because many of these agreements do not have a maximum stated liability.
We report our business in two primary reportable segments - the GPU business and the Tegra Processor business - based on a single underlying architecture.
Deferred revenue primarily includes customer advances and deferrals related to license and development arrangements and post contract customer support, or PCS.
In addition, a large portion of our current datacenter capacity is located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas.
As of October 27, 2019, we do not believe that our estimates, as otherwise provided for, on such tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.
resolved with the respective tax authorities.
During the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, the impact of derivative financial instruments designated for hedge accounting treatment on other comprehensive income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to be highly effective.
obligations that has not been recognized as revenue was $395 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 47% as revenue over the next twelve months and the remainder thereafter.
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021, and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, or collectively, the Notes.
As of October 27, 2019, we had not issued any commercial paper.
One customer represented approximately 24% of our accounts receivable balance as of October 27, 2019, and one customer represented approximately 19% of our accounts receivable balance as of January 27, 2019.
Although discussions with the European Union and China regulatory bodies are progressing and closing the acquisition is possible by the end of this calendar year, we believe the closing will likely occur in the early part of calendar 2020.
All shares delivered from these repurchases have been placed into treasury stock.


item2.txt
Cash provided by operating activities increased in the first nine months of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2019, due to changes in working capital driven by a reduction in days sales outstanding and a reduction in inventory.
The year-on-year and sequential growth reflect strength in mobile workstation products.
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, collectively, the Notes.
This was driven by a decline in revenue from SOC modules for gaming platforms, which was partially offset by an increase of 12% in Automotive revenue.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 6%, primarily reflecting strength across mobile workstation products.
Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 6%, primarily reflecting strength across mobile workstation products.
Tegra Processor business revenue increased by 10% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The increase in interest income was primarily due to higher average invested balances.
We intend to return the remaining $2.01 billion through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends.
The gross margin of our GPU business increased during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, reflecting the sale of previously written off components.
In our Professional Visualization platform, we announced that a number of creative and design applications are now accelerated by RTX ray tracing.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations.
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 27, 2019.
Refer to the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019.


