Of the total fair value of equity awards granted during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, we estimated that the stock-based compensation expense related to equity awards that are not expected to vest was $105 million and $144 million, respectively.
The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, enhanced damages, interest, fees, expenses, and costs against NVIDIA.
On January 29, 2018, we adopted the new revenue accounting standard using the modified retrospective method and applied it to contracts that were not completed as of that date.
PCS revenue is recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
We have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity.
The results for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for any future period.
ZiiLabs alleges that the unlawful importation results from the infringement of the ZiiLabs 2 Patents by products from respondents NVIDIA, ASUSTeK Computer Inc., ASUS Computer International, EVGA Corporation, Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd., G.B.T.
Through October 28, 2018, we have repurchased an aggregate of 255 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $6.36 billion.We intend to return an additional $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, which may begin in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
For fiscal year 2019, we previously announced our plan to return $1.25 billion to shareholders.
This increase was due primarily to over 40% growth in sales of GeForce GPU products for gaming, driven by initial sales of Turing-based GPUs for desktops, Pascal-based GPUs for desktops and by high-performance notebooks based on our Max-Q technology.
We previously announced our plan to return $1.25 billion to shareholders in fiscal year 2019.
Interest income was $37 million and $17 million during the third quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $94 million and $48 million during the first nine months of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 1.7 million shares at a total cost of $467 million through net share settlements.
Sales, general and administrative expenses increased by 22% during both the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2019, compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2018, driven primarily by employee additions and increases in employee compensation and other related costs, including stock-based compensation expense.The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.