fls.txt
Forward-looking statements are based on our management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management.


item1.txt
In instances where the operating expenses of certain functions benefit both reportable segments, our CODM assigns 100% of those expenses to the reportable segment that benefits the most.
We measure progress to completion based on actual cost incurred to date as a percentage of the estimated total cost required to complete each project.
For the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, there were no other-than-temporary impairment losses and net realized gains were not significant.
Currently, we have the intent and ability to hold our investments until maturity.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets.
The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discount and issuance costs.
During the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, the impact of derivative financial instruments designated for hedge accounting treatment on other comprehensive income or loss was not significant and all such instruments were determined to be highly effective.
In fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021, and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, or collectively, the Notes.
All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior to the Notes.
Refer to Part I, Item 1, Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of significant developments in our legal proceedings since January 28, 2018.
The Notes are our unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
The fair values of our financial assets and liabilities are determined using quoted market prices of identical assets or quoted market prices of similar assets from active markets.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we paid cash to settle an aggregate of $2 million in principal amount of the Convertible Notes and had $14 million in principal amount outstanding as of April 29, 2018.
Software licenses are frequently sold along with post contract customer support, or PCS.
In fiscal year 2017, we entered into a credit agreement, or the Credit Agreement, under which we may borrow, repay and re-borrow amounts from time to time, up to $575 million, for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
We operate on a 52- or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January.


item2.txt
Fueled by the sustained demand for better 3D graphics and the scale of the gaming market, NVIDIA has evolved the GPU into a computer brain at the intersection of virtual reality, high performance computing, or HPC, and artificial intelligence, or AI.
The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discounts and issuance costs.
We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program.
The net proceeds from the Notes were $1.98 billion, after deducting debt discounts and issuance costs.
Cash used in financing activities increased in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, primarily due to share repurchases and higher tax payments related to employee stock plans, partially offset by lower repayments of Convertible Notes.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we withheld approximately 2 million shares at a total cost of $449 million through net share settlements.
As of April 29, 2018, we were authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $1.16 billion through December 2020.
Net income and net income per diluted share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 were $1.24 billion and $1.98, respectively, up 145% and 151%, respectively, from a year earlier, fueled by strong revenue growth and improved gross and operating margins.
Datacenter revenue, including Tesla, GRID and DGX, increased 71%, reflecting strong sales of our Volta architecture, including NVIDIA Tesla V100, new DGX systems, and strong demand for HPC.
Interest expense was $15 million and $16 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease in our effective tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year is primarily due to a decrease in the U.S. statutory tax rate from 35% to 21%, partially offset by a decrease in the impact of tax benefits from stock-based compensation.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we issued 74 thousand shares of our common stock upon settlement of $2 million in principal amount of Convertible Notes submitted for conversion.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, we issued 74 thousand shares of our common stock upon settlement of $2 million in principal amount of Convertible Notes submitted for conversion.


