fls.txt
You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect.


item1.txt
Deferred revenue primarily includes deferrals related to PCS.
Refer to Note 12 of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Maximum potential future payments cannot be estimated because many of these agreements do not have a maximum stated liability.
All existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries will be effectively senior to the Notes.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
The difference of $30 million represents deferred rent for leases that existed as of the date of adoption, which was an offset to the opening balance of operating lease assets.
As of July 28, 2019, we had not borrowed any amounts under this agreement.
We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China.
The closing of the merger is subject to approval by regulatory agencies.
We have received regulatory approval in the United States and Mexico and are engaged with regulators in Europe and China.
Operating lease assets also include initial direct costs incurred and prepaid lease payments, minus any lease incentives.
As of July 28, 2019, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling $757 million.


item2.txt
Since the inception of our share repurchase program, we have repurchased an aggregate of 260 million shares under our share repurchase program for a total cost of $7.08 billion through July 28, 2019.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 was 8.8% and 4.9% respectively, and 6.7% and 5.9% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 29%, reflecting a decline in shipments of gaming desktop GPUs partially offset by revenue growth in gaming notebook GPUs.
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
The sequential increase reflects growth from SOC modules for gaming platforms, gaming notebook GPUs, and GeForce RTX SUPER gaming GPUs.
We previously communicated our intent to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Our PC OEM revenue decreased by 58% primarily driven by the absence of cryptocurrency mining processor sales.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2020 was 8.8% and 4.9% respectively, and 6.7% and 5.9% for the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2019, respectively.
GeForce GPU product sales for gaming decreased 29%, reflecting a decline in shipments of gaming desktop GPUs partially offset by revenue growth in gaming notebook GPUs.
Cash provided by investing activities increased in the first half of fiscal year 2020 compared to the first half of fiscal year 2019, due to lower purchases of marketable securities and higher maturities and sales of marketable securities.
Our PC OEM revenue decreased by 4%, primarily driven by the absence of cryptocurrency mining processor sales.
We intend to return the remaining $2.11 billion through a combination of share repurchases and cash dividends.
We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Also refer to Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27, 2019 for a prior discussion of our legal proceedings.
The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion.


