fls.txt
You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect.


item1.txt
As of April 28, 2019, we do not believe that our estimates, as otherwise provided for, on such tax positions will significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months.
The fair value of the contracts was not significant as of April 28, 2019 and January 27, 2019.
Under the single unifying architecture for our GPU and Tegra Processors, we leverage our visual computing expertise by charging the operating expenses of certain core engineering functions to the GPU business, while charging the Tegra Processor business for the incremental cost of the teams working directly for that business.
There were no significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 financial assets and liabilities for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
The decrease in our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily due to a decrease in the amount of earnings subject to United States tax, and an increase in the impact of tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the U.S. federal research tax credit.
Amortization expense associated with intangible assets was $7 million and $11 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as for our consolidated financial statements.
ZiiLabs alleged that the unlawful importation resulted from the infringement of the ZiiLabs 2 Patents by products from respondents NVIDIA, ASUSTeK Computer Inc., ASUS Computer International, EVGA Corporation, Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd., G.B.T.
The Notes are our unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Inc., Micro-Star International Co., Ltd., MSI Computer Corp., Nintendo Co., Ltd., Nintendo of America Inc., PNY Technologies Inc., Zotac International (MCO) Ltd., and Zotac USA Inc.
The ZiiLabs 1 and 2 district court cases were dismissed pursuant to a stipulation of dismissal filed on February 8, 2019.
On May 16, 2016, Polaris Innovations Limited, or Polaris, a non-practicing entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Quarterhill Inc. (formerly WiLAN Inc.), filed a complaint against NVIDIA for patent infringement in the United States and Germany.
The table below presents details of our reportable segments and the “All Other” category.
On May 16, 2016, Polaris Innovations Limited, or Polaris, a non-practicing entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Quarterhill Inc. (formerly WiLAN Inc.), filed a complaint against NVIDIA for patent infringement in the United States and Germany.


item2.txt
Income from operations for the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 was $358 million, down 72% from a year earlier and up 22% sequentially.
Our Tegra brand integrates an entire computer onto a single chip, and incorporates GPUs and multi-core CPUs to drive supercomputing for autonomous robots, drones, and cars, as well as for consoles and mobile gaming and entertainment devices.
As previously communicated, we intend to return $3.00 billion to shareholders by the end of fiscal year 2020, including $700 million in share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
We also withhold common stock shares associated with net share settlements to cover tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards under our employee equity incentive program.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, we withheld approximately 1 million shares at a total cost of $211 million through net share settlements.
If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain required regulatory approvals, we could be obligated to pay Mellanox a termination fee of $350 million.
The year-on-year increase reflects strength across both desktop and mobile workstation products.
Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 6% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products.
Our GPU product brands are aimed at specialized markets including GeForce for gamers; Quadro for designers; Tesla and DGX for AI data scientists and big data researchers; and GRID for cloud-based visual computing users.
OEM and Other revenue was $99 million, down 74% from a year ago and down 15% sequentially.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, for the automotive market, we announced that we are partnering with Toyota Research Institute-Advanced Development to develop, train and validate self-driving vehicles; unveiled the NVIDIA DRIVE AP2X automated driving solution, encompassing DRIVE AutoPilot software, DRIVE AGX and DRIVE validation tools; introduced NVIDIA DRIVE AV Safety Force Field to enable safe, comfortable driving experiences; and announced availability of the NVIDIA DRIVE Constellation autonomous vehicle simulation platform.
Revenue from Quadro GPUs for professional visualization increased 6% due primarily to higher sales across desktop and mobile workstation products.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Beginning August 2004, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase our stock.
As of April 28, 2019, we were authorized to repurchase additional shares of our common stock up to $7.24 billion through December 2022.


