Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1.
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered.
The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.
Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC).
In addition, we also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
We are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
Therefore, the foundries, particularly TSMC who manufactures our newest products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business.
We cannot guarantee that our foundries will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies.
For example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products or that they will continue to manufacture a given product for the full life of the product.
We could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry.
The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
The independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters.
TSMC's and UMC's foundries in Taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in California are located in areas that have been seismically active in the past and some of these areas have also been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons.
For example, as a result of the March 2011 earthquake in Japan, production at the Seiko factory at Sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices.
For example, our customers' supply of other complimentary products may be disrupted by a natural disaster and may cause them to delay orders of our products.
More vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks.
Down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products.
Weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted, in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs.
We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult.
The nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business.
In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance.
Due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year.
In addition, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complementary products.
These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues.
The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer product demands in a timely manner.
In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.
•access to advanced packaging technology.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications.
However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy.
In addition, we anticipate continued pressure from our customers to reduce prices, which may outpace our ability to lower the cost for established products.
•other new or emerging programmable logic products.
Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell PLD products.
The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment.
We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs.
We could also face competition from our licensees.
In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future.
If greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited.
Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner.
For example, in 2011, when certain suppliers located in Japan were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials.
Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 46% of our worldwide net revenues in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and as of September 29, 2018, Avnet accounted for 50% of our total net accounts receivable.
In addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors.
In addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success.
Unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors.
This could increase our credit risk exposure relating to the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or delayed payment for such purchases.
We are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services.
Any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us.
A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.
While our overall inventory levels fluctuate over time, the inventory of newer product lines may be higher than other products due to a planned increase in safety stock in anticipation of future revenue growth.
In the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs.
Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins.
The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature.
We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales.
We also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase the average selling prices of our products or slow the decline of such prices.
However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in our revenues and gross margins.
If weak economic conditions happen, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers.
Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability.
We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business.
We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions.
Global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities.
The global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability.
Therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated.
Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities was judged to be other than temporary.
Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions.
Our failure to protect and defend our IP could impair our ability to compete effectively.
Third parties may attempt to misappropriate our IP through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against us or parties we have agreed to indemnify.
Such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions, and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms.
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP.
In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools.
Furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties, including hardware and software tools and products.
The design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us.
In addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our products.
Any failure of our information technology systems to function properly could result in business disruption.
Consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls.
Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial, management, or operational information on a timely and accurate basis.
In addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties included in our IT systems could contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our IT systems.
Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption.
If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected.
We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act).
Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure.
We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us.
Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain, develop and transition such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers.
Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel.
From time to time we have effected restructuring that eliminate a number of positions.
Even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future.
Further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business.
The amount of damages alleged in certain legal claims may be significant.
Certain other claims involving the Company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under "Note 17.
Contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements, included in included in Item 1.
"Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q, and additional claims may arise in the future.
Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.
Entering into settlements may result in payment of significant amounts which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operation results.
Our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us.
We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software.
Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be discovered in existing or new products.
Subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure.
Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses.
In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims.
Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products.
In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous.
In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our critical accounting policies.
Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements.
The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, business combination, taxes and stock-based compensation.
We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting.
Actual results may differ materially from these estimates.
If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and materially affected.
Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Our FPGAs and related technologies are subject to EAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce.
In addition, we may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the ITAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of State.
EAR and ITAR govern the export and re-export of these FPGAs, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the U.S. or abroad, and the provision of services.
Our inability to effectively control the sale of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us.
We market and sell our products directly to OEMs and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled.
From time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market."
Gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand.
In addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard.
The conflict minerals provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act could result in additional costs and liabilities.
In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC established disclosure and reporting requirements for companies whose products incorporate "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, regardless of whether such products are manufactured by those companies or by third parties.
These requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products.
The costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements include those for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities.
We may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement.
Moreover, some of our customers may require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict-free, and we may be unable to verify the origin of the raw materials used in our products to the extent necessary to make this certification.
Our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies.
The legislation is unclear in some respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as state tax authorities, and the legislation could be subject to amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts of the legislation.
Furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings.
We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations.
Considerable amounts of shares of our common stock are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common stock.
In addition, 31.0 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and Amended and Restated 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.
We have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
The agreements governing the 2019 Notes, 2021 Notes and 2024 Notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business.
A failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2019 Notes, the 2021 Notes and the 2024 Notes.
On May 16, 2016, the Board authorized the 2016 Repurchase Program to repurchase of up to $1.00 billion of shares of our common stock and debentures.
On May 16, 2018, the Board authorized the 2018 Repurchase Program to repurchase the Company's common stock and debentures up to $500.0 million.
+Portions of this Exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment.
