See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 30, 2019.
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The results of operations for the interim periods shown in this report are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 28, 2020 or any future period.
The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31.
Fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 are both 52-week years ending on March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, respectively.
The quarters ended June 29, 2019 and June 30, 2018 each consisted of 13 weeks.
The new authoritative guidance requires the recognition of assets and liabilities arising from lease transactions on the balance sheet and additional disclosures about the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows from leases.
Accordingly, a lessee recognizes a lease asset for its right to use the underlying asset and a lease liability for the corresponding lease obligation.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance using modified retrospective method during first quarter of fiscal 2020 and resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets of approximately $50.0 million and lease liabilities for operating leases of approximately $50.0 million on March 31, 2019, the beginning of fiscal 2020.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
The Company has elected the practical expedients to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions, and not to record on the balance sheet leases with a term of 12 months or less.
The Company also has elected the package of practical expedients, which allows the Company not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts as of the adoption date are or contain a lease, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases as of the adoption date and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases as of the adoption date.
The Company did not elect to apply the hindsight practical expedient when determining lease term and assessing impairment of right-of-use assets.
The Company recognizes its operating leases within its other assets, other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's finance leases were immaterial.
As of June 29, 2019 and March 30, 2019, Avnet accounted for 40% and 37% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable, respectively.
Net revenues from Avnet accounted for 40% and 52% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.
While the percentage of worldwide net revenues from Avnet fluctuates from period to period, overall the percentage is within historical ranges.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, approximately 50% and 63%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.
Xilinx is subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily in its trade accounts receivable and investments in debt securities to the extent of the amounts recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
and through geographical dispersion of sales.
Xilinx generally does not require collateral for receivables from its end customers or distributors.
No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019.
The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements established by the FASB defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which Xilinx would transact and also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, such as inherent risk, transfer restrictions and risk of nonperformance.
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Company’s Level 1 assets consist of U.S. government securities and money market funds.
Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial
The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities also include foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts.
Level 3 — Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation.
For certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash held in banks, accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities, and are therefore excluded from the fair value tables above.
The Company's $500.0 million principal amount of 3.000% notes due March 15, 2021 (2021 Notes) and $750.0 million principal amount of 2.950% senior notes due June 1, 2024 (2024 Notes) are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes.
The fair values of the 2021 Notes and 2024 Notes as of June 29, 2019 were approximately $503.7 million and $762.5 million, respectively, based on the last trading price for the period (classified as Level 2 in fair value hierarchy due to relatively low trading volume).
As of June 29, 2019, the Company had non-marketable equity securities in private companies of $72.8 million, which were classified as Level 3 assets.
The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are recorded at fair value if the Company recognizes an observable price adjustment or an impairment.
Such impairment losses or observable price adjustments were not material during all periods presented.
The Company’s investments in non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, are recorded at cost (net of accumulated depreciation or amortization, where applicable).
These non-financial assets are reduced to fair value when impaired.
Financial institution securities include securities issued or managed by financial institutions in various forms, such as commercial paper and time deposits.
Substantially all time deposits were issued by institutions outside the U.S. as of June 29, 2019 and March 30, 2019.
As of June 29, 2019, the gross unrealized losses that had been outstanding for both less than twelve months and more than twelve months were primarily related to mortgage-backed securities, which was primarily due to the general rising of the interest-rate environment although the percentage of such losses to the total estimated fair value of the mortgage-backed securities was relatively insignificant.
The Company reviewed the investment portfolio and determined that the gross unrealized losses on these investments as of June 29, 2019 and March 30, 2019 were temporary in nature as evidenced by the fluctuations in the gross unrealized losses within the investment categories.
The marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities) are highly rated by the credit rating agencies, there have been no defaults on any of these securities and the Company has received interest payments as they become due.
Therefore, the Company believes that it will be able to collect both principal and interest amount due to the Company.
Furthermore, the aggregate of individual unrealized losses that had been outstanding for twelve months or more was not significant as of June 29, 2019 and March 30, 2019.
The Company neither intends to sell these investments nor concludes that it is more-likely-than-not that it will have to sell them until recovery of their carrying values.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of marketable debt securities, by contractual maturity, are shown in the table below.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
As of June 29, 2019, $759.3 million of marketable debt securities with contractual maturities of greater than one year were classified as short-term investments.
Additionally, the above table does not include investments in money market funds and debt mutual funds because these investments do not have specific contractual maturities.
The Company records the change in the fair value of its investment in debt mutual funds as part of its interest and other income (expense), net.
This change in fair value was a net increase of $1.4 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and resulted in a gain within interest and other income (expense) net for the period.
During the three months ended June 29, 2019, the Company sold a debt mutual fund and recognized a loss of an immaterial amount.
The Company’s primary objective for holding derivative financial instruments is to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.
As a result of the use of derivative financial instruments, the Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts may fail to meet their contractual obligations.
The Company manages counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts by reviewing counterparty creditworthiness on a regular basis, establishing collateral requirement and limiting exposure to any single counterparty.
The right of set-off that exists with certain transactions enables the Company to net amounts due to and from the counterparty, reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.
In May 2017, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions to manage interest rate risks related to fixed interest rate expenses from its 2024 Notes and floating interest rate income from its investments in marketable debt securities.
Changes in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes were recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.
During the three months ended June 29, 2019, the Company sold the interest rate swap contracts for an immaterial gain.
The gain will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2024 Notes.
As a result of the sale, the Company recorded the net change in fair value of the interest rate swap contracts of $11.7 million in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets for the period ended June 29, 2019.
The Company’s equity incentive plans are broad-based, long-term retention programs that cover employees, consultants and non-employee directors of the Company.
These plans are intended to attract and retain talented employees, consultants and non-employee directors and to provide such persons with a proprietary interest in the Company.
The types of awards allowed under the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (2007 Equity Plan) include incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), restricted stock and stock appreciation rights.
As of June 29, 2019, 11.1 million shares remained available for grant under the 2007 Equity Plan.
For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSU awards vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that the Company pays in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of the Company's employees.
During the first three months of fiscal 2020 and 2019, the Company withheld $4.1 million and $5.5 million worth of RSU awards, respectively, to satisfy the employees’ tax obligations.
The amounts of excess tax benefits, primarily from RSU vesting, were immaterial for all periods presented.
The fair values of stock purchase plan rights under the Company’s ESPP were estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Under the Company’s ESPP, shares are only issued during the second and fourth quarters of each fiscal year.
Therefore, no shares were issued during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 or 2019.
The next scheduled purchase under the ESPP is in the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
As of June 29, 2019, 11.4 million shares were available for future issuance under the Company's ESPP.
The total shares used in the denominator of the diluted net income per common share calculation include potentially dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding that are not included in basic net income per common share calculation.
The diluted shares were calculated by applying the treasury stock method to the impact of the equity incentive plans.
Certain shares of outstanding stock options and RSUs were excluded from diluted net income per common share calculation by applying the treasury stock method, as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
These options and RSUs were immaterial for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively, but could be dilutive in the future if the Company’s average share price increases and is greater than the combined exercise prices and the unamortized fair values of these options and RSUs.
On March 12, 2014, the Company issued the 2021 Notes at a discounted price of 99.281% of par.
Interest on the 2021 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15.
The Company received net proceeds of $495.4 million from issuance of the 2021 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs.
The debt discounts and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the terms of the 2021 Notes.
On May 30, 2017, the Company issued the 2024 Notes at a discounted price of 99.887% of par.
Interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1.
The Company received $745.2 million from the issuance of the 2024 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs.
The debt discounts and issuance costs are amortized to interest expense over the term of the 2024 Notes.
The Company incurred a net interest expense of $1.0 million for the three months ended June 29, 2019 and earned a net interest income of $851 thousand for the three months ended June 30, 2018, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
During the three months ended June 29, 2019, the Company sold the interest rate swap contracts for an immaterial gain.
The gain will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2024 Notes.
On December 7, 2016, the Company entered into a $400.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that, upon certain conditions, may be extended by an additional $150.0 million, with a syndicate of banks (expiring in December 2021).
In connection with the credit facility, the Company is required to maintain certain financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of June 29, 2019, the Company had made no borrowings under this credit facility and was not in violation of any of the covenants.
The Board of Directors (Board) has approved stock repurchase programs enabling the Company to repurchase its common stock in the open market or through negotiated transactions with independent financial institutions.
On May 16, 2016, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to $1.00 billion of the Company's common stock and debentures (2016 Repurchase Program).
On May 16, 2018, the Board authorized another program (2018 Repurchase Program) to repurchase the Company's common stock and debentures up to $500.0 million.
The 2016 and 2018 Repurchase Programs have no stated expiration date.
Through June 29, 2019, the Company fully utilized the entire amount authorized under the 2016 Repurchase Program and used $266.7 million of the $500.0 million authorized under the 2018 Repurchase Program, leaving $233.3 million available for future repurchases.
The Company’s current policy is to retire all repurchased shares, and consequently, no treasury shares were held as of June 29, 2019 and March 30, 2019.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company repurchased 1.4 million shares of common stock in the open market for a total of $145.0 million.
Additionally, the Company entered into a stock repurchase agreement with an independent financial institution to repurchase shares under the 2018 Repurchase Program.
Under the agreement, the Company provided the financial institution with an up-front payment totaling $300.0 million and the financial institution agreed to deliver to the Company a certain number of shares based upon the volume weighted-average price, during an averaging period, less a specified discount.
The initial shares received by the Company were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share.
The Company expects to receive additional shares and a portion of the remaining estimated $131.9 million back during the next quarter.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased 2.1 million shares of common stock in the open market for a total of $136.8 million.
The related tax effects of other comprehensive income (loss) were not material for all periods presented.
The Company recorded a tax provision of $21.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to $22.9 million in the same prior year period, representing effective tax rates of 8% and 11%, respectively.
The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of June 29, 2019, determined in accordance with FASB authoritative guidance for measuring uncertain tax positions, increased by $1.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 to $148.8 million.
The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if realized in a future period, would favorably affect the effective tax rate was $36.5 million as of June 29, 2019.
Another $85.5 million would increase additional paid-in capital.
The $85.5 million relates to an additional deduction claimed on federal and state amended tax returns for fiscal 2014 for repurchase premium paid in that year in connection with the early redemption of the Company’s 3.125% Junior Convertible debenture due March 15, 2037.
As a result of uncertainties regarding tax audit settlements and their possible outcomes, an estimate of the range of increase or decrease that could occur in the next twelve months cannot be made.
The balance of accrued interest and penalties recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and the amounts of interest and penalties included in the Company's provision for income taxes were not material for all periods presented.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court (Tax Court) issued its opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, and, in a 15-0 decision, concluded that related parties in a cost sharing arrangement are not required to share expenses related to stock-based compensation.
The Commissioner appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit).
rehearing the arguments on October 16, 2018, the Ninth Circuit issued a subsequent opinion on June 7, 2019.
In a 2-1 decision, the Ninth Circuit overturned the Tax Court’s decision.
In the case of a denial of a Ninth Circuit en banc rehearing or a decision against Altera following an en banc rehearing, Altera can appeal to the United States Supreme Court for review.
As of the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019, the potential impact of a final adverse decision to the consolidated statement of income could be as much as $45.0 million for prior years' taxes and interest.
Other commitments as of June 29, 2019 totaled $197.4 million and consisted of purchases of inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations related to subcontractors that manufacture silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services.
Additionally, as of June 29, 2019, the Company also had $2.9 million of non-cancelable license
The Company generally sells products with a limited warranty for product quality.
The Company provides an accrual for known product issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.
As of the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and the end of fiscal 2019, the accrual balances of the product warranty liability were immaterial.
The terms and conditions of these indemnity obligations are limited by contract, which obligations are typically perpetual from the effective date of the agreement.
The Company has historically received only a limited number of requests for indemnification under these provisions and has not made any significant payments pursuant to these provisions.
The Company cannot estimate the maximum amount of potential future payments, if any, that the Company may be required to make as a result of these obligations due to the limited history of indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim and indemnification provision.
However, there can be no assurances that the Company will not incur any financial liabilities in the future as a result of these obligations.
From time to time, the Company is involved in various disputes and litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business.
These include disputes and lawsuits related to intellectual property, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, contract law, tax, regulatory, distribution arrangements, employee relations and other matters.
Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each matter and assesses its potential financial exposure.
If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and a range of possible losses can be estimated, the Company accrues a liability for the estimated loss.
Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time.
As additional information becomes available, the Company continues to reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates.
In-process research and development is not subject to amortization prior to the completion of the projects and therefore the balance is excluded from the above annual amortization expense schedule.
Geographic revenue information for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased the Company's products.
This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers.
On July 23, 2019, the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1.
"Financial Statements" for information regarding patent litigation.
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be carefully considered.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations.
•market acceptance of our customers' products.
Most of our wafers are manufactured in Taiwan by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSMC) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC).
We also have wafers manufactured in South Korea by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined through periodic negotiations with these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments.
We are dependent on these foundries to supply the substantial majority of our wafers.
We rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will offer us competitive pricing terms or other commercial terms important to our business.
For example, we may experience supply shortages due to the difficulties foundries may encounter if they must rapidly increase their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand.
We could also experience supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products, or a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which may lead to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry.
Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes or other natural disasters such as typhoons, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water.
The independent foundries, upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters.
TSMC's and UMC's foundries in Taiwan and our assembly and test partners in other regions as well as many of our operations in California are located in areas that have been seismically active in the past and some of these areas have also been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons.
For example, as a result of the March 2011 earthquake in Japan, production at the Seiko factory at Sakata was halted temporarily, impacting production of some of our older devices.
In addition, suppliers of wafers and substrates were forced to halt production temporarily.
Furthermore, natural disasters can also indirectly impact us.
More vertically-integrated competitors may be less exposed to some or all of these and other risks.
Down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products.
In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers' products and those products achieving market acceptance.
Due to the complexity of our customers' designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year.
In addition, other factors may affect our end customers' demand for our products, including, but not limited to, end customer program delays and the ability of end customers to secure other complementary products.
These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues.
In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.
•access to advanced packaging technology.
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications.
However, we may not be successful in executing this strategy.
•large enterprises, like hyperscalers, that have the resources to develop proprietary semiconductors.
The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment.
We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs.
Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products.
We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment.
We could also face competition from our licensees.
In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain aspects of our older technology, and we may do so in the future.
If greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, or if a supplier of our wafers or other materials ceases or suspends operations, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited.
Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases, wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities, resulting in potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner.
For example, in 2011, when certain suppliers located in Japan were forced to temporarily halt production as the result of a natural disaster, this resulted in a tightening of supply for those materials.
Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 40% of our worldwide net revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and as of June 29, 2019, Avnet accounted for 40% of our total net accounts receivable.
In addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors.
In addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success.
Unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors.
This could increase our credit risk exposure relating to the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or delayed payment for such purchases.
We are dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services.
Any (i) prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, (ii) disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, (iii) delays in stabilizing manufacturing processes and ramping up volume for new products, (iv) transitions to new service providers, or (v) other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands.
A number of factors, including our inventory strategy, can impact our gross margins.
While our overall inventory levels fluctuate over time, the inventory of newer product lines may be higher than other products due to a planned increase in safety stock in anticipation of future revenue growth.
In the event demand does not materialize, we may be subject to incremental obsolescence costs.
The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature.
We also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase the average selling prices of our products, or slow the decline of such prices.
If weak economic conditions happen, there may be a number of negative effects on our business, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, potentially causing production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers.
Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit risk and financial market conditions.
Global credit market disruptions and economic slowdown and uncertainty have in the past negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities.
The global credit and capital markets may again experience significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability.
Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal on our investments if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions.
Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner is dependent upon third-party IP.
In the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as software development tools and hardware testing tools.
Furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties, including hardware and software tools and products.
The design requirements necessary to meet future consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development tools that are available to us.
In addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties may contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our products.
We rely in part on various information technology (IT) systems to manage our operations, including, but not limited to, financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary.
Consequently, we periodically implement new, or upgrade or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls.
Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial, management, or operational information on a timely and accurate basis.
In addition, hardware and software tools and products procured from third parties included in our IT systems could contain design or manufacturing defects, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our IT systems.
These systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures.
Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption.
Security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise IT systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated.
We depend on the uninterrupted operation of our IT systems to manage our operations, store and retrieve business and financial data and facilitate internal communications and communications with customers, subcontractors, suppliers and distribution partners.
We experience security incidents of varying degrees on an ongoing basis.
We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act).
Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure.
We depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel.
Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain, develop and transition such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers.
Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel.
Changes to the U.S. immigration laws may also impact the availability of qualified personnel.
From time to time we have effected restructurings that eliminate a number of positions.
Even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future.
Further, changes to our qualified personnel, including key members of management, may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully assimilate key new hires, or to successfully retain, develop and transition promoted employees, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business.
Certain other claims involving the Company are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under "Note 17.
Contingencies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Item 1.
"Financial Statements " of this Form 10-Q, and additional claims may arise in the future.
Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.
We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software.
Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be discovered in existing or new products.
Subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure.
Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses.
In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims.
Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products.
In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous.
In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our critical accounting policies.
The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets including acquisition-related intangibles, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation.
We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting.
Our failure to comply with the requirements of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR) could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Our FPGAs and related technologies are subject to EAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce.
In addition, we may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the ITAR, which are administered by the U.S. Department of State.
EAR and ITAR govern the export and re-export of these FPGAs, the transfer of related technologies, whether in the U.S. or abroad, and the provision of services.
We are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet EAR and ITAR requirements.
We market and sell our products directly to OEMs and through authorized third-party distributors which helps to ensure that products delivered to our customers are authentic and properly handled.
From time to time, customers may purchase products bearing our name from the unauthorized "gray market."
These parts may be counterfeit, salvaged or re-marked parts, or parts that have been altered, mishandled, or damaged.
Gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, thus making it difficult to forecast supply or demand.
In addition, our reputation with customers may be negatively impacted when gray market products bearing our name fail or are found to be substandard.
The conflict minerals provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act could result in additional costs and liabilities.
In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC established disclosure and reporting requirements for companies whose products incorporate "conflict" minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, regardless of whether such products are manufactured by those companies or by third parties.
These requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor products.
The costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements include those for due diligence in regard to the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities.
We may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products through the due diligence process we implement.
Moreover, some of our customers may require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict-free, and we may be unable to verify the origin of the raw materials used in our products to the extent necessary to make this certification.
Our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including but not limited to changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements and tax planning strategies.
The TCJA enacted in December 2017 had a significant impact on our tax obligations and effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The TCJA could also be subject to amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase certain adverse impacts.
As of June 29, 2019 we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 251.0 million shares were outstanding.
In addition, 30.0 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and Amended and Restated 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan.
The availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.
We have indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations.
•increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions.
The agreements governing the 2021 Notes and 2024 Notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business.
•consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to another person.
A failure to comply with these covenants and other provisions in these indentures could result in events of default under the indentures, which could permit acceleration of the 2021 Notes and the 2024 Notes.
