The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We use the acquisition method of accounting and allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquiree based on their respective fair values as of the acquisition date.
The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of these assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
When determining the fair values of assets required and liabilities acquired, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets.
Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, which includes consideration of future growth and margins, future changes in technology, expected cost and time to develop in-process research and development, brand awareness and discount rates.
Fair value estimates are based on the assumptions management believes a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability.
•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the Alveo branded boards, UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families.
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the comparable prior year periods.
Net revenues from Core Products also increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
than offset the sales decreases from Virtex 6 and Spartan 3 product families.
Net revenues from Data Center and TME increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
The increases were primarily due to higher sales from Data Center, which more than offset the decreases in sales from TME.
Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
The increases were due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Automotive and Audio, Video and Broadcast.
Net revenues from Communications increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
The increases were primarily due to higher sales from all sub-segments, with particular strength coming from Wireless business driven by both the continued deployment of 4G Long Term Evolution (LTE) networks and the ramping up global deployment of 5G wireless networks.
In the second half of fiscal 2018, we partnered with our distributors to reduce overall distributor inventory and improve the stability of inventory balances.
Beginning in fiscal 2019, our distributors restocked their inventory to support mutual growth and customer service objectives.
We expect channel revenue to be a small portion of overall revenue over time as stocking levels have increased and are approximating previous levels.
Net revenues in North America increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
The increases were primarily due to higher sales from Wireline and Data Center, which more than offset the decline in revenue from TME and Aerospace and Defense in both periods.
Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
The increases were due to a broad-based increase in sales from most of our end markets, in particular the Wireless business driven by the continued deployment of 4G LTE networks and the ramping up deployment of 5G wireless networks, and to a lesser extent from Data Center.
Net revenues in Europe increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
The increases were primarily due to higher sales from TME and Automotive.
Net revenues in Japan increased in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods.
Gross margin was lower by 1.3 and 0.5 percentage points in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods, respectively.
The decreases were driven primarily by changes in the end-market mix, as revenue from Wireless, which has a relatively lower margin, increased more significantly as compared to the increases in the other end-markets.
The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature.
Amortization expense for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased from the comparable prior year periods.
The increase was primarily due to additional amortization expense from intangible assets acquired through the Deephi Tech acquisition in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Our interest and other income (expense), net, was a net expense of $1.3 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to a net income in the comparable prior year period, a decrease of $6.8 million.
For the first nine months of fiscal 2019, our net interest and other income decreased by $6.9 million as compared to the same prior year period.
These decreases were primarily due to the losses from investments recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
The decrease in the effective tax rates in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year periods was primarily due to the initial recording of the provisional estimate for the TCJA's one-time transition tax net of the reversal of deferred tax liabilities on unremitted foreign earnings in fiscal 2018, a remeasurement of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the reduction in the corporate income tax rate to 21% in fiscal 2018, and a reduction in the U.S. federal statutory tax rate from 31.5% in fiscal 2018 to 21% in fiscal 2019.
The difference between the blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 31.5% and our effective tax rate in the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the one-time transition tax net of the reversal of deferred tax liabilities on unremitted foreign earnings.
On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law.
As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to impact us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018, while other provisions began to impact us in fiscal 2019.
However, the SEC staff issued SAB 118 which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations.
The FASB allows taxpayers to make an accounting policy election of either (1) treating taxes due on GILTI inclusions as a current-period expense when incurred or (2) recognizing deferred taxes for temporary basis differences that are expected to reverse as GILTI in future years.
During the period ended December 29, 2018, the last period covered by SAB 118, we recognized a measurement period adjustment that resulted in a reduction of tax expense of $6.9 million.
The adjustment results from our election to recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences on GILTI.
"Financial Statements."
We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity as well as debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital.
Additionally, our investments in debt securities are liquid and available for future business needs.
As of December 29, 2018, we had $1.82 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held in our non-U.S. jurisdictions.
Operating Activities —During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, our operations generated net positive cash flow of $803.2 million, which was $225.5 million higher than the $577.7 million generated during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The positive cash flow from operations generated during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, increases in accrued liabilities and accounts payable and decreases in accounts receivable and prepaid expenses and other current assets.
These items were partially offset by increases in inventories and other assets as well as decrease in income tax payable.
Accounts receivable decreased by $22.9 million and days sales outstanding decreased to 44 days at December 29, 2018 from 56 days at March 31, 2018.
We had no collectibility issues and our accounts receivable remained current as of December 29, 2018.
We expect our accounts receivable to fluctuate as we partner with our distributors to manage their inventory requirements.
Our inventory levels as of December 29, 2018 were $47.2 million higher at $283.3 million compared to $236.1 million at March 31, 2018 to support our revenue growth, while the combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution decreased slightly to 118 days at December 29, 2018 from 119 days at March 31, 2018.
Net cash used in investing activities during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of $233.9 million for Deephi acquisition, $60.8 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles, $259.2 million of net purchases of available-for-sale securities and $37.6 million of other investing activities.
Financing Activities —Net cash used in financing activities was $461.5 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to $314.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
These items were partially offset by $18.4 million proceeds from issuance of common stock.
We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through April 2029.
Commitments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I.
"Financial Information," for a schedule of our operating lease commitments as of December 29, 2018 and additional information about operating leases.
the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The installment amounts are equal to 8% of the total liability, payable in fiscal 2019 through 2023, 15% in fiscal 2024, 20% in fiscal 2025, and 25% in fiscal 2026.
Financial Information,” for additional information about the one-time transition tax.
The remaining $21.1 million of the long-term income taxes payable is for uncertain tax positions and related interest and penalties.
Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with such liabilities, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities.
As of December 29, 2018, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $400.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in December 2016 (expiring in December 2021).
We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the revolving credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.
Our revolving credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank.
There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility.
We anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future.
Item 2.Unregistered Sale of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On May 16, 2016, the Board authorized the 2016 Repurchase Program to repurchase of up to $1.00 billion of shares of our common stock and debentures.
The 2016 Repurchase Program has no stated expiration date.
Through December 29, 2018, we have used $953.7 million of the $1.00 billion authorized under the 2016 Repurchase Program, leaving $46.3 million available for future purchases.
On May 16, 2018, the Board authorized the 2018 Repurchase Program to repurchase the Company's common stock and debentures up to $500.0 million.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
