The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for any reason.
•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families.
•Core Products consist of all other product families.
The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
Specifically, we are grouping the products manufactured at the 28 nanometer (nm), 20nm and 16nm nodes into a category named Advanced Products while all other products are grouped in a category named Core Products.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 compared to the comparable prior year period.
The increase was a result of sales growth from our 16nm and 20nm product families.
Net revenues from Core Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was largely due to higher sales from Virtex-2 and Virtex-5 product families, partially offset by decline in sales from Virtex-6 and Spartan-3 product families.
Core Products are relatively mature products and, as a result, their sales are expected to decline over time.
Net revenues from Data Center and TME increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from Data Center, but was partially offset by a decrease in sales from TME.
Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the first three months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was due to higher sales from all sub-segments, in particular from automotive and Audio, Video and Broadcast.
Net revenues from Communications decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
Channel revenue was positive in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
This is because shipments to distributors exceeded what the distributors subsequently shipped to their customers in the period.
In the second half of fiscal 2018, we partnered with our distributors to reduce overall distributor inventory and improve the stability of inventory balances.
We expect Channel revenue to be a positive amount as the distributors restock inventory to support growth and customer service objectives.
Net revenues in Europe increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from Industrial, Scientific and Medical and Data Center, but was partially offset by decline in sales from Wireless and TME.
The increase was due to higher sales from Automotive.
Gross margin was higher by 1.5 percentage points in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 from the comparable prior year period.
We expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our Advanced Products, improve manufacturing efficiencies, and improve average selling price management.
The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature.
Amortization expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased slightly from the comparable prior year period as certain acquisition-related intangibles have been fully amortized and there was no new major addition to acquisition related intangibles in recent years.
The 11% increase in stock-based compensation expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to higher expenses associated with RSUs, as we granted RSUs at a higher fair value than in the prior years.
Our net interest and other income (expense) was a net other expense of $2.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to a net other income of $1.8 million in the same prior year period.
The net reduction was due to unrealized losses on equity-type security investments during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, which was partially offset by higher income from the investment portfolio.
The increase in the effective tax rate in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same prior year period was primarily due to the new tax on low-taxed income from foreign subsidiaries and a decrease in excess tax benefits with respect to stock-based compensation.
The increase was partially offset by a significant reduction in the amount of deferred tax accrued on foreign earnings not considered to be permanently reinvested.
On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted into law.
As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the TCJA began to impact us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018, while other provisions began to impact us beginning in fiscal 2019.
However, the SEC staff issued SAB 118 which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations.
There are no measurement period adjustments recorded during the period ending June 30, 2018.
With respect to this provision, the FASB allows taxpayers to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating taxes due on U.S. inclusions in taxable income as a current-period expense when incurred or (2) recognizing deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as low-taxed income in future years.
We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity as well as debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital.
Additionally, our investments in debt securities are liquid and available for future business needs.
As of June 30, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $3.36 billion and working capital of $3.18 billion.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $1.69 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held in our non-U.S. jurisdictions.
Operating Activities —During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our operations generated net positive cash flow of $176.2 million, which was $14.7 million lower than the $190.9 million generated during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The positive cash flow from operations generated during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, increases in income tax payable and accounts payable.
These items were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable and inventories and a decrease in accrued liabilities.
Accounts receivable increased by $74.7 million and days sales outstanding increased to 61 days at June 30, 2018 from 55 days at March 31, 2018.
We had no collectibility issues and our accounts receivable remained current as of June 30, 2018.
We expect our accounts receivable to be relatively higher than normal on a temporary basis as we partner with our distributors to manage their inventory requirements.
Our inventory levels as of June 30, 2018 were $10.9 million higher at $247.0 million compared to $236.1 million at March 31, 2018, but the combined inventory days at Xilinx and distribution decreased to 113 days at June 30, 2018 from 117 days at March 31, 2018.
Net cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consisted primarily of $403.9 million of net purchases of available-for-sale securities and $26.4 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles and $13.9 million of other investing activities.
We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through April 2029.
Commitments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I.
"Financial Information," for a schedule of our operating lease commitments as of June 30, 2018 and additional information about operating leases.
The installment amounts will be equal to 8% of the total liability, payable in fiscal 2019 through 2023, 15% in fiscal 2024, 20% in fiscal 2025, and 25% in fiscal 2026.
Financial Information,” for additional information about the one-time transition tax.
The remaining $17.7 million of the long-term income taxes payable is for uncertain tax positions and related interest and penalties.
Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with such liabilities, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities.
As of June 30, 2018, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $400.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in December 2016 (expiring in December 2021).
We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the revolving credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.
Our revolving credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank.
There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility.
We anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, to procure additional capital equipment and facilities, to develop new products, and to potentially acquire technologies or businesses that could complement our business.
However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A included in Part II.
Item 2.Unregistered Sale of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
On May 16, 2016, the Board authorized 2016 Repurchase Program to repurchase of up to $1.00 billion of shares of our common stock and debentures.
The 2016 Repurchase Program has no stated expiration date.
Through June 30, 2018, we have used $929.4 million of the $1.00 billion authorized under the 2016 Repurchase Program, leaving $70.6 million available for future purchases.
On May 16, 2018, the Board authorized 2018 Repurchase Program to repurchase the Company's common stock and debentures up to $500.0 million.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
