fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) are unaudited and have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
2014-09, "Revenue - Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09").
As a result, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $1.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis.
For additional disclosures required by the new revenue standard see Note 2, "Revenue."
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
"Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis.
The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2018.
The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog.
As of June 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $68.2 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 86 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.


item2.txt
International sales accounted for 48.4 percent and 48.4 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Cost of goods sold for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $220.2 million and $441.9 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 of $227.4 million and $442.9 million, respectively.
The decrease in cost of goods sold for the three and six month periods is primarily related to favorable product mix in 2018.
Gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, was $232.6 million compared to $206.7 million for the same quarter last year.
Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $450.5 million compared to $398.1 million for the six month period ended June 30, 2017.
Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 47.6 percent in the second quarter of 2017 to 51.4 percent in the second quarter of 2018 and increased from 47.3 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2017 to 50.5 percent during the six months ended June 30, 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
Continued and further reductions in military spending could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance the long-term competitiveness of the Company.
Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets.
To date we have not experienced any impairment of our intangible assets, but there can be no assurance that we will not experience such impairment in the future.
We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved, and additional claims may arise in the future.
From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits concerning intellectual property, torts, contracts, shareholder litigation, administrative and regulatory proceedings and other matters, as well as governmental inquiries and investigations, the outcomes of which may be significant to our results of operations and may limit our ability to engage in our business activities.
While we have insurance related to our business operations, it may not apply to or fully cover liabilities we incur as a result of these lawsuits.


