fls.txt



item1.txt
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis as the SaaS service is provided to the client over the contract term.
Revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the software subscriptions as services are provided and at the point-in-time when implementations have been completed.
The deferred revenue recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 is comprised primarily of the annual renewals of certain software subscriptions billed during the first quarter of each year and deposits collected for future EHR installations.
The deferred revenue recognized as revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 is comprised primarily of the periodic recognition of annual renewals that were deferred until earned and deposits for future EHR installations that were deferred until earned.
Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.
Consideration for the acquisition included cash (net of cash of the acquired entity) of $10.8 million (inclusive of seller's transaction expenses), plus a contingent earnout payment of up to $14.0 million tied to Get Real Health's earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA") (subject to certain pro-forma adjustments) for 2019.
Our acquisition of Get Real Health will be treated as a purchase in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations, which requires allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in the transaction.
The fair value measurements of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements within the fair value measurement hierarchy (see Note 15 - Fair Value).


item2.txt
Through much of our history, our strategy has been to achieve meaningful long-term revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market.
Additionally, as we consider the long-term growth prospects of our business, we are seeking to further stabilize our revenues and cash flows and leverage TruBridge services as a growth agent in light of a relatively mature EHR marketplace.
As such, maintaining and growing recurring revenues are additional key components of our long-term growth strategy, aided by the aforementioned focus on customer retention, and includes a renewed focus on driving demand for subscriptions for our existing technology solutions.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on a continuing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services, all of which contribute to recurring revenue growth.
Also, during the third quarter of 2018, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company.
Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to clients on a case-by-case basis, depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes.
We have experienced an increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
Unlike our perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement.
As a result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
In addition, during the first nine months of 2019, we incurred approximately $0.5 million of pre-tax acquisition costs in connection with the acquisition of Get Real Health.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we generated revenues of $204.0 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $208.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, a decrease of 2% that is primarily attributed to fewer MU3 installations as the October 1, 2019 MU3 compliance deadline passed partially offset by We view sales of TruBridge solutions within our existing EHR client base as our leading performance indicator.
Our net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 decreased by $0.8 million to $9.2 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as a result of a higher effective tax rate.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $10.7 million to $25.5 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019, primarily due to more advantageous changes in working capital, most notably as it relates to accounts receivable and financing receivables.


item3.txt



item4.txt
As of the end of the period covered by this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


