fls.txt



item1.txt
The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), and Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI.
We adopted this new accounting standard codified as Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and the related amendments ("new revenue standard") during the first quarter of 2018 and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
The balance sheet impact of the deferred revenue related to these fees was an increase of $1.8 million as of the date of adoption.
Commissions and contract fulfillment costs related to the implementation of software as a service arrangements are now capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the customer.
The balance sheet impact of the prepaid assets was an increase of $3.8 million as of the date of adoption.
Due to the aforementioned changes in assets and liabilities related to the adoption of the new revenue standard, our deferred tax liability increased $0.6 million as of the date of adoption.
In total, the adoption of ASU 2014-09 resulted in a net increase in retained earnings of $2.0 million as of the date of adoption.
The effects of the changes in balance sheet accounts resulting from the adoption of the new revenue standard are primarily due to the beginning adjustments for adoption mentioned above, accompanied by incremental changes resulting from activity during the period ended September 30, 2018.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classifications of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which clarifies cash flow classification for eight specific issues, including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Clarifying the Definition of a Business, to assist an entity in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018, which will be effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2019.


item2.txt
Our TruBridge segment primarily consists of business management, consulting and managed IT services sales generated by TruBridge and the sale of the TruBridge revenue cycle management workflow and automation software.
Historically, we have primarily sought revenue growth through sales of healthcare IT systems and related services to existing and new clients within our target market, a strategy that has resulted in a ten-year compounded annual growth rate in legacy revenues (i.e., revenues related to our legacy Evident and TruBridge operations) of approximately 5.9% as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year.
Important to our potential for continued long-term revenue growth is our ability to sell new and additional products and services to our existing customer base, including cross-selling opportunities presented with the acquisition of Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), the parent company of Healthland, AHT and Rycan Technologies, Inc. We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
January 2016 marked an important milestone for CPSI, as we announced the completion of our acquisition of HHI, the first major acquisition in the Company's history.
This acquisition expanded our footprint for servicing acute care facilities and introduced us to the post-acute care segment, adding significantly to our already substantial recurring revenue base and further expanding our ability to generate organic recurring revenue growth through additional cross-selling opportunities now available within the combined company.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on an ongoing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services.
Also, during the first quarter of 2017 and the third quarter of 2018, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services, as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
For those clients not seeking a financing arrangement, the payment schedule of the typical contract is structured to provide for a scheduling deposit due at contract signing, with the remainder of the contracted fees due at various stages of the installation process (delivery of hardware, installation of software and commencement of training, and satisfactory completion of a monthly accounting cycle or end-of-month operation by each respective application, as applicable).
We have experienced a substantial increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
Unlike our historical perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement.
While ongoing financial challenges facing healthcare organizations have impacted and are expected to continue to impact the community hospitals that comprise our target market, we believe that the reduced reimbursement under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA") for those providers failing to adopt qualifying EHRs will continue to support demand for healthcare information technology and will have a positive impact on our business prospects through at least 2018.
As a result of the announcement from CMS on August 2, 2018 of a final rule changing the attestation period for 2019 and 2020 to any continuous 90-day period instead of the previously-required full year attestation period, hospitals now have until October 1, 2019 to install compliant technology in order to meet the requirements of the program during 2019, compared to a deadline of January 1, 2019 under the previous rule.
We are pursuing other strategic initiatives designed to result in system sales revenue growth in the future in the form of selective expansion into English-speaking international markets, selective expansion within the 100 to 200 bed hospital market, and continued development of new software applications such as our Business Intelligence solution which provides community hospital leaders valuable insight into financial, operational, and clinical data.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we generated revenues of $208.1 million from the sale of our products and services, compared to $198.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2017, an increase of 5% that is primarily attributed to TruBridge client growth.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Even disclosure controls and procedures determined to be effective can only provide reasonable assurance that their objectives are achieved.


part2.txt
Item 1.Legal Proceedings.


