We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements.
References in this Form 10-Q to fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are to our fiscal years ending on March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage and secure applications across mobile, cloud, distributed and mainframe platforms.
Our mission is to eliminate the barriers between ideas and business outcomes.
To achieve this, we have built a portfolio of solutions that enable customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments.
Customers are transforming their businesses to better manage the market demands for speed, exceptional customer experience and rich analytics.
We believe this journey, broadly referred to as digital transformation, is fueled by software.
•Our Services segment helps customers reach their information technology (“IT”) and business goals primarily by enabling the rapid implementation and adoption of our software solutions.
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways.
Our customers benefit from the ability of CA solutions to span their entire infrastructure stack, across mobile, cloud, distributed, and mainframe.
This is critical as customers focus on their end users’ experiences on their apps and the underlying transactions that traverse their heterogeneous environments.
CA is one of the few companies positioned to deliver solutions that span mobile, cloud, open systems and mainframe environments.
This hybrid cloud capability helps customers remove the barriers between ideas and business outcomes.
We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa.
Our strong market position enables our investment in development, innovation and support of the mainframe platform to be among the largest in the industry, which sustains ongoing customer commitment to our Mainframe Solutions.
Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.
•Agile Planning helps customers transform their development practices from traditional to modern agile methodologies.
Agile development utilizes an iterative work cadence with a feedback loop that decreases time-to-market, increases product quality and, most importantly, maintains a focus on generating rapid business value.
CA’s cloud-based solutions in this space help customers to collaboratively plan, prioritize and track agile software development at scale.
•Continuous Delivery optimizes the application development processes by automating the deployment of applications across all stages of their lifecycles.
Continuous delivery is key to transforming the technical aspects of software delivery.
•Automation solutions help customers transform business processes.
•Agile Operations helps customers correlate end-user, application and infrastructure data from cloud-hosted containers to mainframes.
Our solutions help customers see application dependencies and provide intelligent analytics, comprehensive coverage, and an open, extensible architecture that improves end-user experience.
•API (Application Programming Interface) Management facilitates the creation, security and management of APIs through their lifecycle, enabling customers to connect more directly with end-users via mobile apps, cloud platforms and “Internet of Things” devices.
Through our acquisition of Veracode, we provide a wide range of security testing and threat mitigation techniques.
Our solutions help detect and prevent the threat of internal and external attacks leveraging both network and host-based controls for the enterprise and hybrid cloud.
Our product development strategy is built around key growth areas, where we are focused on innovating and delivering differentiated products and solutions across both distributed and mainframe platforms.
We are researching and dedicating resources to the development of emerging technologies that are logical extensions of our core areas of focus.
•Pursue new business models and expanded routes to market.
These models simplify decision-making and accelerate the value customers can derive from new solution investments.
•Expand relationships with our global customer base and address opportunities with new and underserved customers.
We are focused on maintaining and expanding the strong relationships with our established customer base, and will proactively target growth with other potential customers that we do not currently serve.
•Execute strategic and disciplined technology acquisitions.
We also focus on organically developing nascent technologies from companies we have acquired to provide them with the necessary interoperability, resilience and security to operate at scale in the large, heterogeneous IT environments utilized by our customers.
On July 11, 2018, the Company, Broadcom Inc. (“Broadcom”), and Collie Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom (“Merger Sub”) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), pursuant to which Merger Sub was merged with and into the Company, with the Company surviving the Merger and becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom.
The Merger closed on November 5, 2018.
Under the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Company common stock (other than shares that were (i) owned or held in treasury by the Company or owned by Broadcom or Merger Sub and (ii) owned by any wholly owned subsidiary of Broadcom or of the Company) was cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive $44.50 in cash, without interest.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, which creates new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
Topic 606 was adopted by us effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
Refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for policies in accordance with Topic 605.
•Under both Topic 606 and Topic 605, operating expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease in amortization of capitalized software costs.
Mainframe Solutions operating margin was consistent primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
•Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis and an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin increased primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
•Services revenue decreased primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange effect.
Operating margin for Services increased primarily due to lower costs resulting from severance actions associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Topic 606 that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
Topic 606 was adopted by us effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
Refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for policies in accordance with Topic 605.
The following tables present revenue and expense line items reported in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019, both as reported under Topic 606 and Topic 605, and for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 as reported under Topic 605, and the period-over-period dollar and percentage changes for those line items.
Our software licenses and maintenance are for mainframe, enterprise, and SaaS computing environments.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $150 million, total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $11 million compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $264 million, total revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased $38 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment, as well as a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
During the first half of fiscal 2019, we executed a total of 22 license agreements with incremental contract values in excess of $10 million each, for an aggregate contract value of $583 million.
During the first half of fiscal 2018, we executed a total of 18 license agreements with incremental contract values in excess of $10 million each, for an aggregate contract value of $351 million.
The period over period increase for both the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to some license agreements renewing earlier than their original expiration dates.
However, in accordance with Topic 606, the license and maintenance revenue on renewed contracts is deferred until the original contract expiration dates, which cause a difference in the amount of bookings and revenue recognized for the period.
Software licenses and maintenance revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Software licenses and maintenance revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Professional services revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $3 million, professional services revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange effect.
Professional services revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $9 million, professional services revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decline in professional services engagements.
The decline in professional services engagements was a result of several factors, including our products being easier to install and manage and an increase in customers’ use of partners for services engagements.
Revenue in the United States for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
International revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $74 million, international revenue increased slightly with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in subscription and maintenance and SaaS revenue, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $97 million, international revenue increased primarily due to an increase in subscription and maintenance and SaaS revenue, as well as a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million.
Operating expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in amortization of capitalized software costs as discussed below.
Operating expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in other expenses, net attributable to the Fiscal 2019 Plan.
Cost of professional services for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606, cost of professional services for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in the number of professional services engagements.
Operating margin for professional services for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606, operating margin for professional services for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower costs resulting from severance actions associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan.
Operating margin for professional services does not include certain additional direct costs that are included within the Services segment (refer to “Performance of Segments” below).
Amortization of capitalized software costs consists of the amortization of both purchased software and internally generated capitalized software development costs.
Internally generated capitalized software development costs relate to new products and significant enhancements to existing software products that have reached the technological feasibility stage.
Amortization of capitalized software costs for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in amortization of our internally developed software products and purchased software products.
Selling and marketing expenses include the costs relating to our sales force, partners, corporate and business marketing and customer training programs.
Selling and marketing expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Selling and marketing expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 was generally consistent compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $16 million, selling and marketing expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased $19 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from lower headcount, partially offset by an increase in costs associated with the cancellation of our annual trade show, CA World, during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
General and administrative expenses include the costs of corporate functions, including our executive leadership and administration groups, finance, legal, human resources, corporate communications and other costs such as provisions for doubtful accounts.
General and administrative expenses for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was generally consistent compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, partially offset by a decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from lower headcount.
General and administrative expenses for the first half of fiscal 2019 was generally consistent compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from lower headcount, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
Product development and enhancements expense for the first half of fiscal 2019 was generally consistent compared with the first half of fiscal 2018.
Depreciation and amortization of other intangible assets consists of both depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of other intangible assets.
On May 2, 2018, our Board of Directors approved the Fiscal 2019 Plan to better align its business priorities.
The Fiscal 2019 Plan comprises the termination of approximately 800 employees and global facility exits and consolidations.
Refer to Note 4, “Restructuring,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Interest expense, net for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in interest income resulting from higher interest rates and cash balances in the United States and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in interest expense from the $250 million 2.875% Senior Notes that matured in August 2018.
Income tax expense for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $19 million and income tax benefit for the first half of fiscal 2019 was $65 million compared with income tax expense for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 of $74 million and $134 million, respectively.
Congress or the Department of Treasury may provide legislative or regulatory updates which would change our assessment.
If legislative or regulatory updates are issued related to this item, the timing of which is uncertain, we may be required to recognize additional tax expense up to the full amount of the $113 million in the period such updates are issued.
Excluding the impact of discrete items for the first half of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, our estimated annual effective tax rate was 20.8% and 28.6%, respectively.
In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting, we disaggregate our operations into Mainframe Solutions, Enterprise Solutions and Services segments, which is utilized by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, for evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
Our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments are comprised of our software business organized by the nature of our software offerings and the platforms on which the products operate.
The Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that we sell to our customers.
We regularly enter into a single arrangement with a customer that includes mainframe solutions, enterprise solutions and services.
The amount of contract revenue assigned to our operating segments is generally based on the manner in which the proposal is made to the customer.
The software product revenue assigned to our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is based on either (1) a list price allocation method (which allocates a discount in the total contract price to the individual products in proportion to the list price of the products); (2) allocations included within internal contract approval documents; or (3) the value for individual software products as stated in the customer contract.
The price for the implementation, consulting, education and training services is separately stated in the contract and these amounts of contract revenue are assigned to our Services segment.
Accordingly, differences in segment revenue and consolidated revenue arise primarily from (a) term and perpetual software licenses that are recognized ratably under our segment policies and in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 that, after adoption of Topic 606, are recognized at a point-in-time; and (b) differences in the allocations of contract value among products and services in a contract arising from the use of a relative standalone selling price allocation method in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods after adoption of Topic 606 as compared to the aforementioned approach to assigning contract value to our segments.
The basis for allocating shared and indirect costs between our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is dependent on the nature of the cost being allocated and is generally either in proportion to segment revenues or in proportion to the related direct cost category.
There are no allocated or indirect costs for our Services segment.
A measure of segment assets is not currently provided to our Chief Executive Officer and has therefore not been disclosed.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $5 million.
Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was consistent compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals and, to a lesser extent, a favorable foreign exchange effect of $5 million.
Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis and an unfavorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions, partially offset by pre-merger costs related to the Merger with Broadcom, and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue and a favorable foreign exchange effect of $4 million, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis.
Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs from prior period acquisitions and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Services revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange effect.
Operating margin for Services for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower costs resulting from severance actions associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan.
Services revenue for the first half of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decline in professional services engagements.
The decline in professional services engagements was a result of several factors, including our products being easier to install and manage and an increase in customers’ use of partners for services engagements.
Operating margin for Services for the first half of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower costs resulting from severance actions associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan.
Refer to Note 14, “Segment Information,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
During the first half of fiscal 2019, there was a $118 million unfavorable translation effect from foreign exchange rates on cash held outside the United States in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
We continue to expect domestic cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowings to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and our investing and financing activities, including, among other things, the payment of regular quarterly dividends, compliance with our debt repayment schedules and the funding for capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter.
In addition, we continue to expect foreign cash, cash equivalents and cash flows from foreign operations to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and investing activities, including, among other things, the funding of capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development, for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter.
Under our subscription and maintenance agreements, customers generally make installment payments over the term of the agreement, often with at least one payment due at contract execution, for the right to use our software products and receive product support, software fixes and new products when available.
The timing and actual amounts of cash received from committed customer installment payments under any specific agreement can be affected by several factors, including the time value of money and the customer’s credit rating.
Often, the amount received is the result of direct negotiations with the customer when establishing pricing and payment terms.
In certain instances, the customer negotiates a price for a single upfront installment payment and seeks its own internal or external financing sources.
In other instances, we may assist the customer by arranging financing on the customer’s behalf through a third-party financial institution.
Amounts billed or collected as a result of a single installment for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, rather than being invoiced and collected over the life of the license agreement, are reflected in the liability section of our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as “Deferred revenue and advanced payments.” Amounts received from either a customer or a third-party financial institution that are attributable to later years of a license agreement have a positive impact on billings and cash provided by operating activities in the current period.
Accordingly, to the extent these collections are attributable to the later years of a license agreement, billings and cash provided by operating activities during the license’s later years will be lower than if the payments were received over the license term.
We are unable to predict with certainty the amount of cash to be collected from single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, under new or renewed license agreements to be executed in future periods.
For the second quarter of fiscal 2019, gross receipts related to single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, were $34 million compared with $80 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
For the first half of fiscal 2019, gross receipts related to single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, were $129 million compared with $274 million for the first half of fiscal 2018.
In any quarter, we may receive payments in advance of the contractually committed date on which the payments were otherwise due.
In limited circumstances, we may offer discounts to customers to ensure payment in the current period of invoices that have been billed, but might not otherwise be paid until a subsequent period because of payment terms.
Net cash used in operating activities for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $11 million, representing a decrease of $48 million compared with net cash provided by operating activities of $37 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in net cash from operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash collections from billings of $39 million mainly attributable to lower single installment collections and an increase in other disbursements, net of $21 million mainly from payments associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan, partially offset by a decrease in income tax payments, net of $9 million compared with the year-ago period.
Net cash used in investing activities for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $13 million compared with $20 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions and purchased software of $9 million compared with the year-ago period.
Net cash used in financing activities for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was $359 million compared with $215 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to an increase in debt repayments of $251 million mainly from the repayment of the $250 million 2.875% Senior Notes in August 2018, partially offset by a decrease in common stock repurchases of $90 million and an increase in net debt borrowings from our notional pooling arrangement of $12 million compared with the year-ago period.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the first half of fiscal 2019 was $251 million, representing a decrease of $84 million compared with the first half of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash collections from billings of $152 million mainly attributable to lower single installment collections and an increase in other disbursements, net of $42 million mainly from payments associated with the Fiscal 2019 Plan, partially offset by a decrease in vendor disbursements and payroll of $84 million and a decrease in income tax payments, net of $26 million compared with the year-ago period.
The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to an increase in cash paid for acquisitions and purchased software of $10 million compared with the year-ago period.
The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to an increase in debt repayments of $250 million from the repayment of the 2.875% Senior Notes in full in August 2018, partially offset by a decrease in net debt repayments from our notional pooling arrangement of $54 million, an increase in exercises of common stock options of $16 million and a decrease in common stock repurchases of $10 million compared with the year-ago period.
In August 2018, we repaid our 2.875% Senior Notes in full for $250 million.
In April 2018, we amended our Term Loan Agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
On November 5, 2018, in connection with the completion of the Merger and as required by the terms of the Merger Agreement with Broadcom, we prepaid (or caused to be prepaid) in full all obligations outstanding and terminated all commitments under the Revolving Credit Agreement and the Term Loan Agreement.
We had $114 million of unsecured and uncommitted multi-currency lines of credit at September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 available to meet short-term working capital needs for our subsidiaries.
We use guarantees and letters of credit issued by financial institutions to guarantee performance on certain contracts and other items.
At September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, $56 million and $60 million, respectively, of these lines of credit were pledged in support of bank guarantees and other local credit lines.
At September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, none of these arrangements were drawn down by third parties.
There was a $118 million unfavorable foreign currency translation effect on our cash balances for the first half of fiscal 2019 predominantly due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro (6%), the Brazilian real (18%), the British pound sterling (7%), the Indian rupee (10%) and the Israeli shekel (3%).
There was a $136 million favorable foreign currency translation effect on our cash balances for the first half of fiscal 2018 predominantly due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro (11%), the British pound sterling (7%) and the Canadian dollar (7%).
At September 30, 2018, there was no material change to our critical accounting policies or the methodologies or assumptions we apply under them since March 31, 2018 other than the impact of adopting Topic 606.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606.
