CA Technologies is a global leader in software solutions that simplify complex enterprise environments. Our solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage and secure applications across mobile, cloud, distributed and mainframe platforms. Many of the largest companies in the world, including most of the Fortune 500 and many government agencies, rely on CA software to help manage and secure their hybrid cloud environments.
Our mission is to eliminate the barriers between ideas and business outcomes. To achieve this, we have built a portfolio of solutions that enable customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments. Customers are transforming their businesses to better manage the market demands for speed, exceptional customer experience and rich analytics. We believe this journey, broadly referred to as digital transformation, is fueled by software.
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways. Our customers benefit from the ability of CA solutions to span their entire infrastructure stack, across mobile, cloud, distributed, and mainframe. This is critical as customers focus on their end users’ experiences on their apps and the underlying transactions that traverse their heterogeneous environments. CA is one of the few companies positioned to deliver solutions that span mobile, cloud, open systems and mainframe environments. This hybrid cloud capability helps customers remove the barriers between ideas and business outcomes. We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa. Our strong market position enables our investment in development, innovation and support of the mainframe platform to be among the largest in the industry, which sustains ongoing customer commitment to our Mainframe Solutions. Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.
•Agile Planning helps customers transform their development practices from traditional to modern agile methodologies. Agile development utilizes an iterative work cadence with a feedback loop that decreases time-to-market, increases product quality and, most importantly, maintains a focus on generating rapid business value. CA’s cloud-based solutions in this space help customers to collaboratively plan, prioritize and track agile software development at scale.
•Continuous Delivery optimizes the application development processes by automating the deployment of applications across all stages of their lifecycles. Continuous delivery is key to transforming the technical aspects of software delivery. Our solutions enable the development, testing and release teams to work concurrently and continuously to remove the excess overhead and delays that come with traditional software development.
•Agile Operations helps customers correlate end-user, application and infrastructure data from cloud-hosted containers to mainframes. Our solutions help customers see application dependencies and provide intelligent analytics, comprehensive coverage, and an open, extensible architecture that improves end-user experience.
•API (Application Programming Interface) Management facilitates the creation, security and management of APIs through their lifecycle, enabling customers to connect more directly with end-users via mobile apps, cloud platforms and “Internet of Things” devices.
•Application Security offers a holistic and scalable way to manage security risk across an application lifecycle. Through our acquisition of Veracode, we provide a wide range of security testing and threat mitigation techniques. Our solution is hosted on a unified application security testing platform and integrates into existing development toolchains. This enables users to quickly identify and remediate security flaws earlier in the development process and supports the development of high-quality, secure code.
•Privileged Access Management enables organizations to control and monitor the access and activity of privileged users, or users with elevated access or administrator rights. Our solutions help detect and prevent the threat of internal and external attacks leveraging both network and host-based controls for the enterprise and hybrid cloud.
•Drive organic innovation. Our product development strategy is built around key growth areas, where we are focused on innovating and delivering differentiated products and solutions across both distributed and mainframe platforms. 
•Expand relationships with our global customer base and address opportunities with new and underserved customers. We are focused on maintaining and expanding the strong relationships with our established customer base, and will proactively target growth with other potential customers that we do not currently serve. 
•Execute strategic and disciplined technology acquisitions. We intend to supplement our organic innovation efforts with key technology acquisitions that are within or adjacent to our core areas of focus. We also focus on organically developing nascent technologies from companies we have acquired to provide them with the necessary interoperability, resilience and security to operate at scale in the large, heterogeneous IT environments utilized by our customers.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with amendments in 2015, 2016 and 2017, which creates new ASC Topic 606 (“Topic 606”) that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. Topic 606 was adopted by us effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Reporting periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 were presented in accordance with ASC Topic 605 (“Topic 605”). As a result of adopting Topic 606, we now recognize revenue for the license component of all our on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606. Refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for policies in accordance with Topic 605.
•Total revenue decreased due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. On a Topic 605 basis, total revenue increased $27 million primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $20 million. Excluding the favorable foreign exchange effect, total revenue increased primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment.
•Mainframe Solutions revenue increased primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million and, to a lesser extent, an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals. Mainframe Solutions operating margin increased primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue.
•Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $8 million. Excluding the favorable foreign exchange effect, Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis. Enterprise Solutions operating margin increased primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
•Services revenue decreased slightly primarily due to a decline in professional services engagements. The decline in professional services engagements was a result of several factors including our products being easier to install and manage, and an increase in customers’ use of partners for services engagements. Operating margin for Services was generally consistent.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Topic 606 that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. Topic 606 was adopted by us effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. Reporting periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 were presented in accordance with Topic 605. As a result of adopting Topic 606, we now recognize revenue for the license component of all our on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract. 
Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” and Note 3, “Impact of Adopting Topic 606,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the changes in our policies for revenue recognition and commissions, and the required disclosures related to the impact of adopting Topic 606. Refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for policies in accordance with Topic 605.
Total revenue is the amount of revenue recognized during the reporting period from the sale of products and services. Our products and services can be broadly categorized as perpetual licenses to use software, term-based licenses for SaaS and on-premise use of software, maintenance for perpetual and term-based on-premise licenses, and professional services. Our software licenses and maintenance are for mainframe, enterprise, and SaaS computing environments. Refer to Note 2, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $114 million, total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $27 million compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $20 million. Excluding the favorable foreign exchange effect, total revenue increased due to an increase in software licenses and maintenance revenue as discussed below.
Software licenses and maintenance revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $108 million, software licenses and maintenance revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $28 million compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $18 million. Excluding the favorable foreign exchange effect, software licenses and maintenance revenue increased primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue and SaaS revenue within our Enterprise Solutions segment.
The following tables present the amount of revenue earned from sales to unaffiliated customers in the United States and international regions and corresponding percentage changes for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Revenue in the United States for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $91 million, revenue in the United States increased.
International revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. Excluding the impact from the adoption of Topic 606 of $23 million, international revenue increased primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $20 million.
Operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in other expenses, net attributable to the Fiscal 2019 Plan. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in selling and marketing expenses as discussed below.
Amortization of capitalized software costs consists of the amortization of both purchased software and internally generated capitalized software development costs. Internally generated capitalized software development costs relate to new products and significant enhancements to existing software products that have reached the technological feasibility stage.
Amortization of capitalized software costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decrease in amortization of our internally developed software products and, to a lesser extent, a decrease in amortization expense associated with purchased software products. With our adoption of the Agile development methodology in fiscal 2014, amortization expense of internally developed software products has decreased as we have not capitalized any internally developed software costs.
Product development and enhancements expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in personnel-related costs resulting from higher headcount.
On May 2, 2018, our Board of Directors approved the Fiscal 2019 Plan to better align its business priorities. The Fiscal 2019 Plan comprises the termination of approximately 800 employees and global facility exits and consolidations. Severance and facility exit and consolidation actions under the Fiscal 2019 Plan are expected to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2019. Refer to Note 4, “Restructuring,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Income tax benefit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $84 million compared with income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 of $60 million. For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $98 million resulting primarily from refinements to the provisional estimates of the impact of changes in tax law in the United States resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act. For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a net discrete tax benefit of $8 million resulting primarily from reductions in uncertain tax positions related to effectively settled tax audits.
In accordance with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting, we disaggregate our operations into Mainframe Solutions, Enterprise Solutions and Services segments, which is utilized by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, for evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
Our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments are comprised of our software business organized by the nature of our software offerings and the platforms on which the products operate. The Services segment is comprised of product implementation, consulting, customer education and customer training services, including those directly related to our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions software that we sell to our customers.
We regularly enter into a single arrangement with a customer that includes mainframe solutions, enterprise solutions and services. The amount of contract revenue assigned to our operating segments is generally based on the manner in which the proposal is made to the customer. The software product revenue assigned to our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments is based on either (1) a list price allocation method (which allocates a discount in the total contract price to the individual products in proportion to the list price of the products); (2) allocations included within internal contract approval documents; or (3) the value for individual software products as stated in the customer contract. The price for the implementation, consulting, education and training services is separately stated in the contract and these amounts of contract revenue are assigned to our Services segment. The contract value assigned to each operating segment is then recognized in a manner consistent with our revenue recognition policies prior to the adoption of Topic 606. Accordingly, differences in segment revenue and consolidated revenue arise primarily from (a) term and perpetual software licenses that are recognized ratably under our segment policies and in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods prior to the adoption of Topic 606 that, after adoption of Topic 606, are recognized at a point-in-time; and (b) differences in the allocations of contract value among products and services in a contract arising from the use of a relative standalone selling price allocation method in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for periods after adoption of Topic 606 as compared to the aforementioned approach to assigning contract value to our segments.
Segment expenses do not include amortization of purchased software, amortization of other intangible assets, amortization of internally developed software products, share-based compensation expense, certain foreign exchange derivative hedging gains and losses, severance and facility actions approved by our Board of Directors, and other miscellaneous costs. A measure of segment assets is not currently provided to our Chief Executive Officer and has therefore not been disclosed.
Mainframe Solutions revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $10 million and, to a lesser extent, an increase in revenue from new sales that offset the decline in revenue contribution from renewals. Mainframe Solutions operating margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to an increase in Mainframe Solutions revenue.
Enterprise Solutions revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a favorable foreign exchange effect of $8 million. Excluding the favorable foreign exchange effect, Enterprise Solutions revenue increased primarily due to an increase in SaaS revenue, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions products recognized on an upfront basis. Enterprise Solutions operating margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to lower acquisition-related costs and an increase in Enterprise Solutions revenue.
Services revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased slightly compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to a decline in professional services engagements. The decline in professional services engagements was a result of several factors including our products being easier to install and manage, and an increase in customers’ use of partners for services engagements. For the long term, we expect new versions of our on-premise software to be easier to implement and a higher percentage of our business to shift to a SaaS-based model, which could potentially reduce the demand for our professional services engagements. Operating margin for Services for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was generally consistent compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Refer to Note 14, “Segment Information,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Our cash and cash equivalent balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with 48% held in our subsidiaries outside the United States at June 30, 2018. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $3,328 million at June 30, 2018, representing a decrease of $77 million from the March 31, 2018 balance of $3,405 million. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, there was a $104 million unfavorable translation effect from foreign exchange rates on cash held outside the United States in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
We continue to expect domestic cash, cash equivalents, cash flows from operations and borrowings to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and our investing and financing activities, including, among other things, the payment of regular quarterly dividends, compliance with our debt repayment schedules and the funding for capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. In addition, we continue to expect foreign cash, cash equivalents and cash flows from foreign operations to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and investing activities, including, among other things, the funding of capital expenditures, acquisitions and research and development, for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement with Broadcom, we may not continue to repurchase shares without Broadcom’s consent. Refer to Note 15, “Subsequent Events” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Under our subscription and maintenance agreements, customers generally make installment payments over the term of the agreement, often with at least one payment due at contract execution, for the right to use our software products and receive product support, software fixes and new products when available. The timing and actual amounts of cash received from committed customer installment payments under any specific agreement can be affected by several factors, including the time value of money and the customer’s credit rating. Often, the amount received is the result of direct negotiations with the customer when establishing pricing and payment terms. In certain instances, the customer negotiates a price for a single upfront installment payment and seeks its own internal or external financing sources. In other instances, we may assist the customer by arranging financing on the customer’s behalf through a third-party financial institution.
Amounts billed or collected as a result of a single installment for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, rather than being invoiced and collected over the life of the license agreement, are reflected in the liability section of our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as “Deferred revenue and advanced payments.” Amounts received from either a customer or a third-party financial institution that are attributable to later years of a license agreement have a positive impact on billings and cash provided by operating activities in the current period. Accordingly, to the extent these collections are attributable to the later years of a license agreement, billings and cash provided by operating activities during the license’s later years will be lower than if the payments were received over the license term. We are unable to predict with certainty the amount of cash to be collected from single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, under new or renewed license agreements to be executed in future periods.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, gross receipts related to single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, were $95 million, all of which was billed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, gross receipts related to single installments for the entire contract value, or a substantial portion of the contract value, were $194 million, of which $97 million was billed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
In any quarter, we may receive payments in advance of the contractually committed date on which the payments were otherwise due. In limited circumstances, we may offer discounts to customers to ensure payment in the current period of invoices that have been billed, but might not otherwise be paid until a subsequent period because of payment terms. Historically, any such discounts have not been material.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $262 million, representing a decrease of $36 million compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash collections from billings of $113 million mainly attributable to lower single installment collections, partially offset by a decrease in vendor disbursements and payroll of $81 million compared with the year-ago period.
In April 2018, we amended our term loan agreement with Bank of America, N.A. to extend the maturity date from April 2022 to April 2023.
We had $114 million of unsecured and uncommitted multi-currency lines of credit at June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 available to meet short-term working capital needs for our subsidiaries. We use guarantees and letters of credit issued by financial institutions to guarantee performance on certain contracts and other items. At June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, $56 million and $60 million, respectively, of these lines of credit were pledged in support of bank guarantees and other local credit lines. At June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, none of these arrangements were drawn down by third parties.
For additional information concerning our debt obligations, refer to our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our 2018 Form 10-K.
There was an $88 million favorable foreign currency translation effect on our cash balances for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 predominantly due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro (7%), the British pound sterling (4%), and the Israeli shekel (4%), partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Brazilian real (6%).
