fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method.
A qualitative assessment for impairment is required for equity investments without readily determinable fair values.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company is the lessee in a series of operating leases covering a large portion of the Company’s Kansas City, Missouri-based leased office facilities.
The Company’s analysis of its real estate joint ventures for all periods presented indicate that none qualified as a VIE and, accordingly, they have not been consolidated.
In connection with providing data processing services for its clients, the Company holds client funds on behalf of transfer agency clients and pharmacy processing clients.
receivables represent amounts due to the Company for pharmacy claims paid in advance of receiving client funding and for pharmacy claims processed for which client funding requests have not been made.
Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of certificates of deposit with a maturity of greater than twelve months are classified as Investments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Client funds obligations represent the Company’s contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by the Company.
In addition, client funds obligations include transfer agency client balances invested overnight.
These investments are recorded at cost, less impairment, adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for an identical or similar investment of the same issuer.


item2.txt
Item 2.
In certain cases, pro-rata losses are recognized only to the extent of its investment in and advances to the unconsolidated affiliate.
We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
At each reporting period, we assess if these investments continue to qualify for this measurement alternative.
Impairment is recorded when there is evidence that the expected fair value of the investment has declined to below the recorded cost.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In connection with this acquisition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from our existing credit facility).
A portion of these proceeds was used to repay our Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit facility.
DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries.
The relevant business combination disclosures have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
On July 31, 2018, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Eze Software (“Eze”) from TPG Capital.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.


