fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
In the opinion of the Company, the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements contain all adjustments (consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, except as noted elsewhere in the notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) necessary for a fair statement of its financial position as of September 30, 2018, the results of its operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and its cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under ASC Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2018 and the guidance requires application using a retrospective method.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-15 as of January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company presenting fees paid for debt extinguishment as a financing activity within the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for all periods shown.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
Equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values may be measured at estimated fair value or cost less impairment, if any, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes, with changes in the carrying value recognized in net income.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
The Company is the lessee in a series of operating leases covering a large portion of the Company’s Kansas City, Missouri-based leased office facilities.
The Company’s analysis of its real estate joint ventures for all periods presented indicate that none qualified as a VIE and, accordingly, they have not been consolidated.
Client funding receivables represent amounts due to the Company for pharmacy claims paid in advance of receiving client funding and for pharmacy claims processed for which client funding requests have not been made.
Funds held on behalf of clients in the form of certificates of deposit with a maturity of greater than twelve months are classified as Investments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Client funds obligations represent funds owed to full service mutual fund transfer agency clients for cash balances invested overnight, and the Company’s contractual obligations to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations that are recorded on the balance sheet when incurred, generally after the Company has processed a claim on behalf of its pharmacy clients.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We use net asset value as a practical expedient for the fair value of partnership interests in private equity funds that are not accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Investments in non-marketable equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values and do not qualify for the practical expedient to measure the investment using a net asset value per share are recorded using the measurement alternative in ASU 2016-01.
Impairment is recorded when there is evidence that the expected fair value of the investment has declined to below the recorded cost.
The total investment in unconsolidated affiliates, including basis differences, is included in Investments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.
In connection with this acquisition, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) pursuant to which we borrowed an aggregate of approximately $7.4 billion (approximately $524.5 million of which was rolled over from our existing credit facility).
A portion of these proceeds was used to repay our Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under our then-existing credit facility.
DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries.
The relevant business combination disclosures have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
On October 1, 2018, we purchased all of the outstanding stock of Eze Software (“Eze”) for approximately $1.45 billion in cash, plus the costs of effecting the transaction.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.


item4.txt



part2.txt
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.


