fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating income or net income.
The December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet data were derived from audited financial statements but do not include all disclosures required by GAAP for annual financial statements.
In August 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 230, Statement of Cash Flow, and other Topics.
ASC 606 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605 and 985 and requires entities to recognize revenue when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company for its first quarter of fiscal 2020 and earlier adoption is permitted beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
This ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
This ASU would require lessees to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of short-term leases) at the commencement date; (i) a lease liability, which is a lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (ii) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term.
Lessor accounting is largely unchanged under the amendments of this ASU.
Additional disclosures will be required to allow the user to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leasing activities.
The software-enabled services arrangements provide an alternative for clients who do not wish to install, run and maintain complicated financial software.
Under these arrangements, the client does not have the right to take possession of the software, rather, the Company agrees to provide access to its applications, remote use of its equipment to process transactions, access to client’s data stored on its equipment, and connectivity between its environment and the client’s computing systems.


item2.txt
Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc. On April 16, 2018, the Company purchased all of the outstanding stock of DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) for approximately $5.0 billion in cash, plus the costs, fees, expenses and debt assumed in connection with the transaction.
A portion of these proceeds was used to repay the Company’s Senior Notes and the remaining amounts outstanding under the Company’s existing credit facility.
DST is a global provider of specialized technology, strategic advisory and business operations outsourcing to the financial services and healthcare industries.
The relevant business combination disclosures will be included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements once preliminary accounting has been completed.
Our revenues increased $14.2 million or 3.5%.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
The following disclosure modifies the discussion of risks and uncertainties previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients primarily in the financial services and healthcare industries.
We may be unsuccessful in predicting the needs of changing industries and whether potential clients will accept our products or services.
If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted.
We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions and may face difficulties in integrating our acquisitions.
Assets under management, assets under administration or the number of transactions processed may decline for various reasons, causing results to vary.
Factors that could decrease assets under management and assets under administration (and therefore revenues) include declines in the market value of the assets in the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifts among, the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, as well as market conditions generally.
In addition, the market environment for hedge funds involves risk and has suffered significant turmoil, including as a result of substantial changes in global economies, political uncertainty, stock market declines and new regulatory initiatives.
Further, investor demand for hedge funds has experienced recent declines and increased withdrawals as a result of poor performance relative to benchmark indices and increased negative investor sentiment on fees.


