fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019.
Prior period information was not restated and continues to be presented under ASC 840, Leases.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space.
An operating lease asset represents our right to use an underlying asset over the term of a lease while an operating lease liability represents our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
We have certain lease agreements with our unconsolidated real estate joint ventures.
Total right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for operating lease liabilities was $22.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased $151.8 million, or 15.3%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $147.8 million in revenues.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $132.7 million, or 16.0%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $146.9 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
License, maintenance and related revenues increased $19.1 million, or 11.6%, primarily due to increased license revenues for institutional and investment management products, as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $0.9 million.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $1.1 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $5.8 million.
The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates.
These facilities are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
Other (expense) income, net.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, other income, net included investment gains and dividend income of $12.1 million and $13.4 million, respectively.
The remaining portion of other income, net consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses.
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net.
This is primarily related to our joint venture International Financial Data Services L.P. (“IFDS L.P.”) and represents our proportionate share of IFDS L.P.’s net income or loss, offset by the amortization of basis differences.
Loss on extinguishment of debt.
The loss on extinguishment of debt includes costs incurred by us which did not meet the criteria for capitalization.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2019.


part2.txt
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.


