fls.txt
For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
We adopted ASU 2016-02 as of January 1, 2019.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard.
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our lease agreements consist primarily of operating leases for office space.
An operating lease asset represents our right to use an underlying asset over the term of a lease while an operating lease liability represents our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
These investments include money market funds, marketable equity securities and seed capital investments where fair value is determined using quoted prices in active markets.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased $252.2 million, or 28.2%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which partially included DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $241.6 million in revenues.
Software-enabled services revenues increased $221.1 million, or 29.8%, primarily due to the acquisitions, which added revenues of $236.2 million, as well as from a continued increase in demand for our fund administration services and services for advisory and wealth managers.
The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $7.3 million.
License, maintenance and related revenues increased $31.1 million, or 20.2%, primarily due to increased term license revenues as well as the acquisitions, which added revenues of $5.4 million.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $6.4 million.
The impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $2.8 million.
Interest expense, net.
The increase in interest expense, net for 2019 as compared to 2018 relates primarily to increased borrowings in connection with our acquisitions of DST, Eze and Intralinks and, to a lesser extent, higher average interest rates.
Other income, net.
The remaining portion of other income, net consisted primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses.
Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, net.
This is primarily related to our joint venture International Financial Data Services L.P. (“IFDS L.P.”) and represents our proportionate share of IFDS L.P.’s net income, offset by amortization of basis differences.
Loss on extinguishment of debt.
The loss on extinguishment of debt includes costs incurred by us which did not meet the criteria for capitalization.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019.


part2.txt
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.


