fls.txt
For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating income or net income.
We adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), as of January 1, 2019.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed us to not reassess existing contracts to determine if they contain a lease and to carry forward their historical lease classification upon transition.
In addition, we will not apply the guidance of ASC 842 to leases with an initial term of 12 months or less as allowed by the standard.
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of real estate office space with lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
ASU 2016-13 requires companies to measure credit losses utilizing a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires a consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2020.
We are currently evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Depreciation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $32.0 million and $6.8 million, respectively.


item2.txt
Our revenues increased $715.3 million, or 169.5%, primarily due to our acquisitions, which included DST Systems, Inc. (“DST”) and CACEIS North America (“CACEIS”) in the second quarter of 2018 and Eze Software Group, LLC (“Eze”) and Intralinks Holdings, Inc. (“Intralinks”) in the fourth quarter of 2018, which, combined, contributed $703.4 million in revenues.
Additionally, revenues increased due to increased demand for our software-enabled services.
The favorable impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $3.5 million.
The impact from foreign currency translation reduced costs by $1.8 million.
Interest expense, net.
Other income, net.
Loss on extinguishment of debt.
The loss on extinguishment of debt includes costs incurred by us which did not meet the criteria for capitalization.
These Senior Notes are discussed further in “Liquidity and Capital Resources”.
Our principal cash requirements are to finance the costs of our operations pending the billing and collection of client receivables, to fund payments with respect to our indebtedness, to invest in research and development, to acquire complementary businesses or assets and to pay dividends on our common stock.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock totaling $25.2 million in the aggregate.
Client funds obligations represent our contractual obligations within the DST business to remit funds to satisfy client pharmacy claim obligations and are recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet when incurred, generally after a claim has been processed by us.


item3.txt
We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
When necessary, we have borrowed to fund acquisitions.


item4.txt
Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, respectively), evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of March 31, 2019.


part2.txt
At this time, we do not believe any material losses under these claims to be probable.


