fls.txt
All forward-looking statements in this Form10-Q are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this Form10-Q, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
The unaudited interim consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019 and statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 included herein, have been prepared in accordance with the instructions for Form 10-Q under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and Article 10 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
Results of operations reported for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the entire year.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing the net income for the period by the weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period.
Customers consist primarily of corporate issuers and professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms.
The Company's revenues are measured based on consideration specified in the contract with each customer.
For service contracts that include stand ready obligations, revenue is recognized evenly over the contract period.
For all other services delivered on a per project or event basis, the revenue is recognized at the completion of the event.
The Company believes recognizing revenue for subscriptions and stand ready obligations using a time-based measure of progress, best reflects the Company’s performance in satisfying the obligations.
For bundled contracts, revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
The Company invoices its customers based on the billing schedules designated in its contracts, typically upfront on either a monthly, quarterly or annual basis or per transaction at the completion of the performance obligation.
Deferred revenue as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $1,464,000 and $1,249,000, respectively, and is expected to be recognized within one year.
Costs to obtain contracts with customers consist primarily of sales commissions.
Credit is granted on an unsecured basis.
In determining the amount of the allowance, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions.
The allowance is made up of specific reserves, as deemed necessary, on customer account balances, and a reserve based on our historical experience.
At the end of each interim period, we estimate the effective tax rate we expect to be applicable for the full year and this rate is applied to our results for the interim year-to-date period and then adjusted for any discrete period items.
Costs incurred to develop our cloud-based platform products are capitalized when the preliminary project phase is complete, management commits to fund the project and it is probable the project will be completed and used for its intended purposes.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets also include any lease payments made and exclude lease incentives.
Generally, this includes debt and equity securities that are traded in an active market.
Our cash and cash equivalents are quoted at Level 1.
Level 2 – Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or other valuation techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
The gains or losses that result from this process are recorded as a separate component of other accumulated comprehensive income until the entity is sold or substantially liquidated.
805 – Business Combinations and the related acquired intangible assets and goodwill under FASB ASC No.


