fls.txt
All forward-looking statements in this Form10-Q are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this Form10-Q, and the Company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements.


item1.txt



item2.txt
The statements contained in this Form10-Q that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27a of the Securities Act and Section 21e of the Exchange Act.
Issuer Direct Corporation (Issuer Direct Corporation and its subsidiaries are hereinafter collectively referred to as “Issuer Direct”, the “Company”, “We” or “Our” unless otherwise noted).
Our corporate offices are located at 500 Perimeter Park Drive, Suite D, Morrisville, North Carolina, 27560.
It is possible that information we post on some of these channels could be deemed to be material information.
Therefore, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to review the information we post to all of our channels, including our social media accounts.
Issuer Direct is an industry-leading global communications and compliance company focusing on the needs of corporate issuers.
Issuer Direct's principal platform, Platform id.™, empowers users by thoughtfully integrating the most relevant tools, technologies and products, thus eliminating the complexity associated with producing and distributing their business communications and financial information.
We work with a diverse customer base, which not only includes corporate issuers, but also professional firms, such as investor relations and public relations firms, and the accounting and the legal communities.
We also sell products and services to others in the financial services industry, including brokerage firms, banks and mutual funds.
Corporate issuers and their service providers utilize Platform id.
and related services from document creation all the way to dissemination to regulatory bodies, platforms and shareholders.
Also contributing to the growth in the percentage of Platform and Technology revenue is our focus on our platform first engagement strategy and converting customers which historically relied on us for services work to utilizing Platform id.
As part of our Platform and Technology strategy, we have been working with several select stock exchanges, whereby we make available certain parts of our platform, under agreement, to integrate our offerings.
Such partnerships should yield increased exposure to a targeted customer base that could impact our revenue and overall brand in the market.
is our primary cloud-based subscription platform that efficiently and effectively helps manage the events of our customers seeking to distribute their messaging to key constituents, investors, markets and regulatory systems around the globe.
While the complete platform is available for a single subscription fee, companies also have the flexibility to choose one or more of the specific modules that fit their needs.
The ACCESSWIRE product offering focuses on press release distribution for both private and publicly held companies globally.
Currently, approximately 60% of our ACCESSWIRE revenue is on a subscription basis.
also includes our targeting and outreach database and intelligence analytics module.
This module is centered around both our shareholder communications and news distribution offerings.
We anticipate the analytics and peer review components will become a focal point for Platform id.
Over the past year, we have been focused on refining the model of digital distribution of our customers’ message to the investment community and beyond.
We have migrated some of the customers from the traditional ARS business into this new digital subscription business.
The earnings event industry is a highly competitive space with the majority of the business being driven from practitioners in the investor relations and communications firms.
Initially, this has been broadly distributed via our Investor Network platform, with expectations that partners and publishers will license this dataset for their platforms in the future.


item4.txt
As of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report on Form10-Q, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conducted an evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934).
None, except as previously disclosed on the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 5, 2018.
None.


