Financial Statements.
Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
Refer to Note 2 for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C.
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Acquisition of Jack Black.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States.
The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
For more information on the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted these provisions of the guidance prospectively in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
As such, $15.5 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first six months of fiscal 2017.
Finally, under the ASU, the Company elected to record forfeitures as they occur.
This election did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
The Company adopted this standard in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Refer to Note 5 for disclosures related to the Tax Act.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective method.
During fiscal 2017, the Company established a cross-functional implementation team, including representatives from all of its businesses globally, to analyze the current processes in place for the recognition of revenue and identify potential differences that would result from application of the new guidance.
This initial assessment includes analysis of significant types of arrangements, processes and systems, and reviews of representative contracts.
Additionally, the Company has begun reviewing the enhanced disclosure requirements under the new standard.
Revenues are primarily generated from the sale of finished products to customers.
Those sales predominantly contain a single delivery element and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when ownership, risks and rewards transfer.
While the assessment is not complete, the timing of revenue recognition is not expected to be materially impacted by the new standard.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is in the process of evaluating the impact the guidance will have on its financial statements.
In February 2018, the FASB issued an ASU which addresses the recently enacted Tax Act.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The Company plans to adopt this standard at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company is still assessing the effect of the standard on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures but does not expect the impact to be material.
Jack Black, L.L.C.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a men's luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.3, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition creates opportunities to expand Edgewell's personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint.
The acquisition was financed through available operating cash.
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values.
The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including goodwill and other intangible assets, requires significant judgment.
As of March 31, 2018, this valuation analysis was not complete, including the allocations to goodwill and other intangible assets, and the related deferred tax impacts.
The Company expects to complete the valuation no later than the end of fiscal 2018.
As of March 31, 2018, net assets acquired totaled $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $10.2 (including cash of $3.6), other intangible assets of $46.7 and goodwill of $37.0, representing the value of expansion into new markets.
The intangible assets acquired consisted primarily of the Jack Black trade name, customer relationships and product formulations.
Amortization expense for the current period was estimated using a weighted-average useful life of 14.8 years for those assets preliminarily identified as definite-lived; however, the Company is still in the process of evaluating the useful lives of the acquired intangible assets.
The sale allows the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines.
Total assets sold were approximately $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9.
In February 2018, the Company announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of the Company's business and cost structure.
The project will incorporate the Company's Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
While the Company is incurring costs for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018, the majority of costs and savings under Project Fuel are expected to take place during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
In addition to the expected cost savings and improved profitability, Project Fuel is designed to strengthen the Company's challenger culture and reinforce its consumer-centric organizational focus.
It is also designed to simplify the organization and streamline ways of working in order to increase competitiveness, speed and agility, and ensure the Company has the skills, capabilities and investments needed to compete in a rapidly changing world.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $3.7 related to Project Fuel in the three months ended March 31, 2018.
In January 2014, the Board authorized an expansion of scope of the previously announced 2013 Restructuring, which included rationalization and streamlining of the Edgewell operating facilities and other cost saving initiatives.
Restructuring charges have primarily related to plant closure, accelerated depreciation charges, severance and related benefit costs.
Due to an increase in Wet Shave footprint costs and a delay in the transition of manufacturing in the Company's Feminine Care segment from Montreal to Dover, Delaware, some anticipated savings are not expected to be realized until fiscal 2019.
The Company does not expect costs related to the 2013 Restructuring program to be material in fiscal 2018 or in future periods.
The Company does not include restructuring costs in the results of its reportable segments.
In addition, pre-tax costs of $0.1 and $0.4 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the 2013 Restructuring were included in Cost of products sold.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company had income tax expense of $20.7 and $47.1, respectively, on Earnings before income taxes of $85.8 and $118.9, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 was 24.1% and 39.7%, respectively.
The difference between the federal statutory rate and the effective rate for the six months ended March 31, 2018 is primarily due to a $17.4 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of The Tax Act, as discussed below.
The effective tax rate for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 was 26.6% and 26.2%, respectively.
U.S. Tax Reform
For the six months ended March 31, 2018, the estimated impact of the one-time transition tax on foreign earnings was $96.7, offset by the estimated benefit of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities of $79.3.
The net impact of these transitional provisions resulted in a net charge of $17.4 for the year, which was included as a component of income tax expense.
The Securities and Exchange Committee ("SEC") has issued rules under SAB 118 that would allow for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts.
Basic earnings per share is based on the average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the average number of shares used for the basic earnings per share calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and restricted share equivalent ("RSE") awards.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.6 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.1 of RSE awards because the effect of these awards was anti-dilutive.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.6 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive.
Amortization expense was $4.2 and $8.6 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $4.1 and $8.1 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
Estimated amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal 2018 and for fiscal 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 is approximately $9.3, $18.1, $17.5, $16.9, $16.8 and $16.7, respectively, and $182.1 thereafter.
The Company is still in the process of evaluating the value and useful lives of these intangible assets.
See Note 2 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Jack Black acquisition.
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $836.7 ($186.9 in Wet Shave, $476.1 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care and $143.8 in All Other) at March 31, 2018, an increase of $2.8 from September 30, 2017 related to foreign currency translation rates.
Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life are not amortized, but reviewed annually during the fourth fiscal quarter for impairment of value or when indicators of a potential impairment are present.
An interim impairment analysis may indicate that carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets require adjustment or that remaining useful lives should be revised.
The Company noted there was no indication of a triggering event in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Refer to the sensitivity analysis in Note 8 to the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
During fiscal 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $312.0 and $7.0 on its Playtex and Edge brand names, respectively.
Based on the impairment taken and continued competitive pressure on the Playtex and Edge brands, the intangible assets associated with the brand names were converted to definite-lived assets as of July 1, 2017 and assigned a useful life of 20 years.
The conversion of the Playtex and Edge brand names to definite-lived intangible assets increased amortization expense by $1.8 and $3.6 for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, respectively.
Transfers under this agreement are accounted for as sales of receivables, resulting in the receivables being de-recognized from the consolidated balance sheet.
As of March 31, 2018, the discount rate used to determine the purchase price for the subject receivables is based upon LIBOR plus a margin applicable to the specified obligor.
Account receivables sold under this agreement for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 were $281.5 and $491.6, respectively.
The trade receivables sold that remained outstanding under this agreement as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 were $115.3 and $81.7, respectively.
The dilution reserve, which represents the Company's retained interest in sold receivables, was $11.5 and $8.2 as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and was recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a receivable.
The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received was recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
For the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.6 and $1.0, respectively.
The Company had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $21.6 and $19.4 as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The plans provide retirement benefits based on years of service and earnings.
In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company repurchased 2.1 shares of its common stock for $124.4, all of which were purchased under the previous authorization from May 2015.
The Company has 10.0 shares remaining under the January 2018 Board authorization to repurchase its common shares in the future.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company paid $0.1 in cash dividends related to the vesting of RSE awards, which had been declared and accrued during prior fiscal years.
The Company has not declared any dividends since the third quarter of fiscal 2015, and does not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future.
At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce its exposure to foreign currency risk.
The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default.
The Company manages counterparty risk through the utilization of investment grade commercial banks, diversification of counterparties and its counterparty netting arrangements.
A significant share of the Company's sales is tied to currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the Company's reporting currency.
Conversely, strengthening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can improve reported results.
The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Czech Koruna and the Australian Dollar.
These exposures are generally the result of intercompany purchases, intercompany loans and, to a lesser extent, external purchases, and are revalued in the foreign subsidiary's local currency at the end of each period.
Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary's local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other (income) expense, net.
At March 31, 2018, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
These derivative instruments have a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged and have been deemed highly effective for accounting purposes in offsetting the associated risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
These transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The Company had unrealized pre-tax losses of $3.8 and $1.6 at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, on these forward currency contracts accounted for as cash flow hedges, which are included in AOCI.
Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at March 31, 2018 levels over the next twelve months, the majority of the pre-tax loss included in AOCI at March 31, 2018 is expected to be included in Other (income) expense, net.
Contract maturities for these hedges extend into fiscal 2019.
There were 64 open foreign currency contracts at March 31, 2018 with a total notional value of $135.3.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 resulted in losses of $2.6 and $2.8, respectively, and was recorded in Other (income) expense, net.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 resulted in a loss of $2.2 and a gain of $0.4, respectively.
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no level 1 or level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,089.4 and $1,143.8, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,096.3 and $1,095.7, respectively.
The estimated fair value of the long-term debt is estimated using yields obtained from independent pricing sources for similar types of borrowing arrangements.
The estimated fair value of variable-rate debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, which consists of bank debt, was $185.0 compared to its carrying value of $184.8 and $184.7 at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The estimated fair value is equal to the face value of the debt.
The estimated fair value of long-term debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, has been determined based on level 2 inputs.
Due to the nature of cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, carrying amounts on the balance sheets approximate fair value.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company's revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.
The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and the revolving credit agreements have been determined based on level 2 inputs.
At March 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates and remaining maturities.
The estimated fair value of the deferred compensation liability is determined based upon the quoted market prices of the investment options that are offered under the plan.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
The Company reviews its legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follows appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
The Company does not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, if the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business and the amortization of intangible assets.
Financial items, such as interest income and expense, are managed on a global basis at the corporate level.
The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management's view on how it evaluates segment performance.
The Company's operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and in most cases a combined sales force and management teams.
The Company applies a fully allocated cost basis, in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments.
Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.
The Company's senior notes issued in May 2011 and May 2012 (collectively, the "Notes") are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by the Company's existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are guarantors of any of the Company's credit agreements or other indebtedness for borrowed money (the "Guarantors").
The Guarantors are 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and substantially all of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness.
The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.
Eliminations represent adjustments to eliminate investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions between or among the Parent Company, the Guarantors and the Non-Guarantors.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
Item 1A.
•the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees while implementing benefit changes and reductions in the workforce.
In fiscal 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure.
The project will incorporate our Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce growth and margin improvement objectives.
