Item 2.
Risk Factors and “Forward-Looking Statements” included within our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
While we report financial results in accordance with GAAP, this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as “adjusted” or “organic” and exclude items such as restructuring charges, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, the Jack Black, L.L.C.
•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions, and dispositions (including the acquisition of Jack Black and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business).
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act.
•Adjusted effective tax rate is defined as the effective tax rate excluding items such as restructuring charges, the gain on the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, investor settlement expense, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the related tax effects of these items, and the impact of the Tax Act from the income tax provision and earnings before income taxes.
•Free cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities less net capital expenditures.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in U.S. dollars.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
In February 2018, we announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will enable us to achieve our desired future state operations.
The project will incorporate our Zero-Based Spending (“ZBS”) and global productivity initiatives and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
In addition, the Company has incurred global severance costs related to the reduction of overhead.
While the Company incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018, most costs will be incurred and savings will be achieved during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
On March 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a leading U.S. based luxury men’s skincare products company, for approximately $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition will create opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio in growing categories in the U.S. and globally, while nurturing the brand equity of Jack Black.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the acquisition of Jack Black.
The sale provides the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves.
The strategic sale of the Playtex gloves business will allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines.
Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The gain on sale of Playtex gloves recognized for fiscal year 2018 was $15.3.
Refer to Note 3 of our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion related to the sale of the Playtex gloves business.
The following is a summary of key results for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Net earnings and earnings per share (“EPS”) for the time periods presented were impacted by restructuring activities, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, the related tax impact from those costs, and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, both of which are Non-GAAP measures.
The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, net sales were $457.1, a 2.4% decrease when compared with the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Jack Black, the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 3.5% versus the prior year period, as overall volumes decreased primarily in North America and Latin America offset by growth in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Feminine Care had declines in volumes across all brands of tampons and pads.
Wet Shave was impacted by unfavorable price mix in the quarter.
For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see “Segment Results.”
Gross profit was $193.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as compared to $199.3 in the prior year period.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 42.3%, representing a 30 basis point decline over the prior year gross margin of 42.6%.
Excluding $0.1 of costs associated with the Sun Care Reformulation, gross margin decreased 20 basis points to 42.4%.
The impact of lower volumes across all segments (70 basis points) and unfavorable price mix in Wet Shave, Infant Care, and Feminine Care (40 basis points) was mostly offset by favorable cost mix (60 basis points) driven by lower operational spending.
Interest expense associated with debt for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was $16.0, a decrease from the prior year period of $17.8.
The decline in interest expense was the result of lower outstanding debt under the U.S. revolving credit facility in fiscal 2019.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was 105.7% compared to 79.8% in the prior year period.
The effective tax rate for the current period includes a $4.7 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act.
Excluding the tax impact of restructuring charges, investor settlement expenses, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, Sun Care reformulation charges, the impact of the Tax Act, and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, the adjusted effective tax rate was 26.6% and 34.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
Project Fuel is an enterprise-wide transformational initiative, launched in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure and key processes that will enable us to achieve its desired future state operations.
We expect Project Fuel will generate $225 to $240 in total annual gross savings by the end of the 2021 fiscal year.
To implement the restructuring element of Project Fuel, we estimate one-time pre-tax charges to be approximately $130 to $140, with an additional capital investment of $60 to $70 through the end of fiscal year 2021.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019 Project Fuel related restructuring charges and capital expenditures were $18.5 and $5.3, respectively.
For further information on our restructuring projects, refer to Note 4 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, refer to Note 15 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Wet Shave net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 2.2%, inclusive of a 1.6% decline due to currency movements.
By region, North America organic net sales declined 7% and International markets increased 5.5%.
International sales growth was led by the Asia Pacific region, driven by volume growth of Schick Hydro Sense® and Intuition f.a.b.™ as well as strong performance in the eCommerce channel.
European sales also increased driven by strong private label distribution in Men's systems.
Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit historically have been higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 12.9%, inclusive of a 20.0% increase due to the acquisition of Jack Black, partially offset by a 1.7% decline from the disposition of the Playtex gloves business and a 1.5% decline due to currency movements.
Sales in North America increased due to favorable Sun Care price mix and volume growth in Bulldog.
Globally, Bulldog sales increased nearly 27% with growth coming from both International and North American markets.
Feminine Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased $7.9, or 9.6%, inclusive of a 0.3% decline due to the impact of currency movements.
All Other net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased 13.8%, inclusive of a 0.6% decline from the impact of currency movements.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, general corporate expenses were $13.7, or 3.0% of net sales, compared to $18.7, or 4.0% of net sales, in the prior year quarter.
The decline in corporate expense relates to prior year severance payouts and reductions in other salary and benefit payments.
At December 31, 2018, substantially all our cash balances were located outside the U.S.
We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed.
We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-U.S. subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.
The counterparties to deposits consist of several major financial institutions.
We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies.
Our total borrowings were $1,334.1 at December 31, 2018, including $224.0 tied to variable interest rates.
Our total borrowings at September 30, 2018 were $1,300.2.
As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of $39.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the “Revolving Facility”) and $8.6 of outstanding letters of credit.
Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2018, $677.4 remains available under the Revolving Facility.
At September 30, 2018, we had outstanding borrowings of $7.0 under the Revolving Facility.
As of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under the Term Loan.
We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $10.1 and $8.2 as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The expected minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2019 is $7.3; however, discretionary contributions may also be made.
As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.
Due to the seasonality of our Company’s business, primarily in Sun Care, the first fiscal quarter is typically the lowest operating cash flow quarter of the year.
The decline in operating cash flow in the current quarter was primarily driven by the build of inventory for the upcoming Sun Care season in North America, the processing of returns related to the fiscal 2018 season, and the timing of payments.
These decreases were offset by reduced accounts receivable as additional receivables were sold in the quarter from our $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser.
We expect that fiscal 2019 free cash flow will be above 100% of GAAP net earnings.
The change was primarily due to the sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018 for $19.0, partially offset by reduced capital expenditures of $9.4 during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to $11.6 during the same period in the prior year.
Additionally, investing cash inflows of $2.5 and $1.7 were reclassified from operating activities as a result of collections on the deferred purchase price of accounts receivables sold.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we had $32.0 of additional borrowings under the Revolving Facility, offset by employee shares withheld for taxes and short-term debt.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we did not repurchase any common stock.
We have 10.0 common shares available for repurchase in the future under the Board’s authorization to repurchase our common shares.
There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On February 6, 2019, Edgewell Personal Care (the "Company") borrowed $185 under the Revolving Facility to fund the repayment and retirement of our $185 Term Loan due April 2019.
Refer to Note 17 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
As of February 6, 2019, the Company has approximately $468 available to draw on the Revolving Facility.
The Revolving Facility is governed by the terms of Amendment No.
3 to Our Credit Agreement dated June 1, 2015, as amended, by and among Edgewell Personal Care Company, as borrower, Edgewell Personal Care Brands, LLC, as subsidiary borrower, certain other subsidiaries of Edgewell Personal Care Company, as subsidiary guarantors, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the various lenders who are a party thereto as filed on Form 8-K with the SEC on March 15, 2017, with an amendment filed with the SEC on Form 8-K on June 1, 2015.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
