Item 1.
There have been no material changes to the disclosure regarding the legal proceedings set forth in Part I, Item 3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Refer to Item 1A.
The risk factors included below are revised from versions included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
More aggressive and assertive tax collection policies, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S., may increase the costs of resolving tax issues and enhance the likelihood that we will have increased tax liabilities going forward.
•the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees while implementing benefit changes and reductions in the workforce.
In fiscal 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure.
The project will incorporate our Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce growth and margin improvement objectives.
Project Fuel follows on several years of productivity initiatives, as well as the initiatives launched with the overall Separation program.
The achievement of our savings targets depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize savings opportunities.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
