•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 13.2 percent and 86.1 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act. This decrease was partially offset by tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 related to the resolution of tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions and by the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation being lower in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 than in the same period in the prior fiscal year. The first quarter of fiscal 2019 also included tax expense related to GILTI and changes in the geographical composition of income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
As of January 27, 2019, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. 
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
•uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.Net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for services and legacy systems. Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year increased due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. In the three months ended January 27, 2019, one customer accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
Net sales for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer investments in TV display manufacturing equipment. Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended January 27, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year, reflecting higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. In the three months ended January 27, 2019, three customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segment’s net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 79 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment spending and customer and product mix. The increase in net sales to customers in Japan, United States and Europe, for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor equipment. The decrease in net sales to customers in Korea for the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected decrease in investments in semiconductor equipment. 
Gross margin in the first three months of fiscal 2019 decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin during the three months ended January 27, 2019 and January 28, 2018 each included $22 million of share-based compensation expense. 
For the three months ended January 27, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor equipment. The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
•the variability in demand for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.