•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
As of April 29, 2018, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. 
Applied’s effective tax rates for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 12.8 percent and 9.3 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was higher than in the same period in the prior year primarily due to $71 million of income tax expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to adjustments in the transition tax and the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act. Applied’s effective tax rates for the first half of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 48.6 percent and 9.1 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2018 was higher than in the same period in the prior year primarily due to $1.1 billion of income tax expense for the transition tax and the decrease in U.S. deferred tax assets under the Tax Act. This was partially offset by the recognition of a tax benefit of $53 million related to the adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation, the effect of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate, and changes in the geographical composition of income.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the six months ended April 29, 2018, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
•uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.Net sales for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for spares and services. Operating income and operating margin for the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased due to higher net sales. In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
Marketing and selling expenses increased in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017 primarily due to additional headcount. 
Gross margin in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the increase in net sales and favorable product mix and materials cost savings. 
Interest and other income, net in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017 primarily driven by higher interest income from investments.
For the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment. The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
•the variability in demand for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.