•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 27.0 percent and 5.7 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to the regulations released on June 14, 2019. 
During the nine months ended July 28, 2019, the increase in goodwill was primarily due to acquisitions completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, which were not significant to Applied’s results of operations.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 17.3 percent and 35.2 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.1 billion in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act. Excluding the tax expense of $1.1 billion, the effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to certain provisions in the Tax Act becoming effective in fiscal 2019, tax expense of $79 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 related to changes in uncertain tax positions and the excess tax benefit from share-based compensation in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 being $42 million less than in the same period in the prior fiscal year.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
As of July 28, 2019, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. 
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the nine months ended July 28, 2019, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.Net sales for the three months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower customer spending on semiconductor spares, partially offset by higher customer spending for comprehensive service agreements. Net sales for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for comprehensive service agreements and legacy systems, partially offset by lower customer spending on semiconductor spares. Operating income and operating margin for the three months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year decreased due to lower net sales and higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. Operating income for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount. Operating margin for the nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in headcount to support revenue growth. In the three months ended July 28, 2019, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
Net sales for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to lower customer investments in mobile and TV display manufacturing equipment. Operating income and operating margin for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year, reflecting lower net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. In the three months ended July 28, 2019, three customers each accounted for at least 10 percent of this segment’s net sales, and together they accounted for approximately 86 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
Gross margin in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix. Gross margin during the three months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $23 million and $22 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. Gross margin during the nine months ended July 28, 2019 and July 29, 2018 included $67 million and $65 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. 
For the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales decreased primarily due to decreased customer investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment. The Semiconductor Systems segment continued to represent the largest contributor of total net sales.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment spending and customer and product mix. The increase in net sales to customers in Taiwan and United States for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year was primarily due to increased investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment. The decrease in net sales to customers in all other regions for the three and nine months ended July 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected a decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment.•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
•fluctuations in customer spending quarter over quarter and year over year for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.