During the six months ended April 28, 2019, the increase in goodwill was primarily due to acquisitions completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, which were not significant to Applied’s results of operations.
The effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $71 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 for adjustments to the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act.
There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.
Excluding the tax expense of $71 million, the effective tax rate for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the rate in the same period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to changes in the geographical composition of income which includes jurisdictions with differing tax rates.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 12.3 percent and 12.8 percent, respectively.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the first half of fiscal 2019 and 2018 were 12.8 percent and 48.2 percent, respectively.
•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
Applied also is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims, both asserted and unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business.
Markets for semiconductors and displays depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for electronic products.
The effective tax rate for the first half of fiscal 2019 was lower than the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to tax expense of $1.1 billion in the first half of fiscal 2018 for the transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act.Operating income for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased due to higher net sales, partially offset by higher expenses related to an increase in headcount.
Operating margin for the three months ended April 28, 2019 decreased slightly compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in headcount to support revenue growth.
Cash provided by operating activities decreased in the first six months of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower cash collections and higher payments to suppliers, offset by a lower change in inventory during the six months ended April 28, 2019, compared to the same period in the prior year.
Gross margin in the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the decrease in net sales and unfavorable changes in customer and product mix.
Net sales for the three and six months ended April 28, 2019 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for services and legacy systems.Even during periods of economic uncertainty or lower revenues, Applied must continue to invest in research and development and maintain a global business infrastructure to compete effectively and support its customers, which can have a negative impact on its operating margins and earnings.
There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.
•the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.