•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
As of January 28, 2018, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. 
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the three months ended January 28, 2018, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
Applied is in the process of implementing new enterprise resource planning and related information systems in order to better manage its business operations, align its global organizations and enable future growth. This implementation requires the commitment of significant personnel and financial resources, and entails risks to Applied’s business operations. If Applied does not successfully implement new enterprise resource planning and related information systems, or if there are delays or difficulties in implementing these systems, Applied may not realize anticipated productivity improvements or cost efficiencies, and may experience interruptions in service and operational difficulties, such as its ability to track orders, timely manufacture and ship products, project inventory requirements, effectively manage its supply chain and allocate human resources, aggregate financial data and report operating results, and otherwise effectively manage its business, all of which could result in quality issues, 
In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems. This data includes confidential information and intellectual property belonging to Applied or its customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. Applied has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have been material to the Company to date. Applied devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect its systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. However, depending on their nature and scope, cybersecurity incidents could result in business disruption; the misappropriation of intellectual property, and corruption or loss of confidential information and critical data (Applied’s and that of third parties); reputational damage; litigation with third parties; diminution in the value of Applied’s investment in research, development and engineering; data privacy issues; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
Applied’s effective tax rates for the first quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 were 88.4 percent and 8.8 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was higher compared to the same quarter in the prior year primarily due to $1.0 billion of income tax expense related to the Tax Act for the transition tax and the decrease in U.S. deferred tax assets. Tax expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was partially offset by adoption of authoritative guidance for share-based compensation that resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits of $51 million in provision for income taxes rather than paid-in capital, and by the effect of the lower U.S. federal corporate tax rate and changes in the geographical composition of income.Net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for spares and services. Operating income and operating margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year increased due to higher net sales. In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments, with majority of the increases resulting from investments in semiconductor equipment. The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, and continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.
The changes in net sales from customers in all regions in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix and spending in semiconductor spares and services. The increase in net sales from customers in Korea, China, and Japan for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily reflected increased investments in semiconductor equipment and changes in semiconductor equipment customer mix. The decrease in net sales from customers in Taiwan primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment, partially offset by increased investments in display manufacturing equipment.
Marketing and selling expenses increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period in fiscal 2017, primarily due to additional headcount. Marketing and selling expenses during the three months ended January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017 included $8 million and $7 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. 
Gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to the increase in net sales and favorable product mix and materials cost savings. Gross margin during the three months ended January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017 included $22 million and $17 million of share-based compensation expense, respectively. •the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
•the variability in demand for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.