During the first nine months of fiscal 2017, Applied completed two acquisitions to complement Applied's existing product offerings and to provide opportunities for future growth within Applied's Display and Adjacent Markets segment. 
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
As of July 29, 2018, Applied’s reporting units include Semiconductor Product Group and Imaging and Process Control Group, which combine to form the Semiconductor Systems reporting segment, Applied Global Services, and Display and Adjacent Markets. 
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.
Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
The following customers accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales for the nine months ended July 29, 2018, and sales to these customers included products and services from multiple reportable segments.
Applied is exposed to various risks related to the global regulatory environment.
The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market changes.
•uncertainties with respect to economic growth rates in various countries, including for the manufacture and sale of semiconductors and displays in the developing economies of certain countries.
In the conduct of its business, Applied collects, uses, transmits and stores data on information technology systems, including systems owned and maintained by Applied or third party providers. These data include confidential information and intellectual property belonging to Applied or its customers or other business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals. All information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure. Applied has experienced, and expects to continue to be subject to, cybersecurity threats and incidents ranging from employee error or misuse to individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to these information systems, to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, none of which have been material to the Company to date. Applied devotes significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect its systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse. However, depending on their nature and scope, cybersecurity incidents could result in business disruption; the misappropriation of intellectual property, and corruption or loss of confidential information and critical data (Applied’s and that of third parties); reputational damage; litigation with third parties; diminution in the value of Applied’s investment in research, development and engineering; data privacy issues; and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. Compliance with, and changes to, laws and regulations concerning privacy and information security could result in significant expense, and any failure to comply could result in proceedings against Applied by regulatory authorities or other third parties.Net sales for the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to higher customer spending for spares and services. Operating income and operating margin for the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year increased due to higher net sales. In the three months ended July 29, 2018, two customers each accounted for more than 10 percent of this segment’s total net sales.
While gross margin in the three months ended July 29, 2018 remained flat compared to the same period in the prior year, gross margin in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 increased compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the increase in net sales and materials cost savings.
Marketing and selling expenses increased in the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in fiscal 2017 primarily due to additional headcount. 
For the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, net sales increased primarily due to increased customer investments in all segments. The Semiconductor Systems segment’s relative share of total net sales continued to represent the largest contributor of net sales.
The changes in net sales in all regions in the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected changes in semiconductor equipment spending and customer mix, and increased spending in semiconductor spares and services. The increase in net sales to customers in China for the three and nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year, also reflected increased investments in display manufacturing equipment. The decrease in net sales to customers in Taiwan for the nine months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily reflected decreased investments in semiconductor equipment. The decrease in net sales to customers in Korea for the three months ended July 29, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily reflected decrease in investments in semiconductor and display manufacturing equipment. •the inappropriate scale of acquired entities’ critical resources or facilities for business needs.
•the variability in demand for display manufacturing equipment, concentration of display manufacturer customers and their ability to successfully commercialize new products and technologies, and uncertainty with respect to future display technology end-use applications and growth drivers.
•implement changes in its design engineering methodology to reduce material costs and cycle time, increase commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems, and improve product life cycle management.
The industries that Applied serves can be volatile and difficult to predict.