The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 29, 2018 (the “2018 Form 10-K”) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
All information presented herein is based on the Company’s fiscal calendar.
Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years.
Each of the terms the “Company” and “Apple” as used herein refers collectively to Apple Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.
Available Information



The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are filed with the SEC.
The Company is subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and files or furnishes reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC.
Such reports and other information filed by the Company with the SEC are available free of charge at investor.apple.com/investor-relations/sec-filings/default.aspx when such reports are available on the SEC’s website.
The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.
The Company periodically provides other information for investors on its corporate website, www.apple.com, and its investor relations website, investor.apple.com.
This includes press releases and other information about financial performance, information on corporate governance and details related to the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders.
The information contained on the websites referenced in this Form 10-Q is not incorporated by reference into this filing.
Further, the Company’s references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only.
During the second quarter of 2019, the Company released the following products:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•An updated iMac® with improved compute and graphics performance.
•Updated AirPods with hands-free “Hey Siri” and the option of a wireless charging case.
Apple Inc. | Q2 2019 Form 10-Q | 25



The Company also announced the following new services:



•Apple News+, a subscription news and magazine service, available initially in the U.S. and Canada.
•Apple Card™, a new kind of credit card designed for the iPhone, expected to be available to qualified customers in the U.S. in summer 2019.
•Apple Arcade™, a game subscription service, expected to launch in fall 2019.
•New Apple TV app and Apple TV channels, bringing together different ways to access shows, movies, sports and news in one app across devices, and allowing users to subscribe to specific third-party video services, expected to be available starting in May 2019.
•Apple TV+, a new subscription service for exclusive original shows, movies and documentaries, expected to be available in fall 2019.
The Company repurchased $24.0 billion of its common stock and paid dividends and dividend equivalents of $3.4 billion during the second quarter of 2019.
Products and Services Performance



Beginning in the first quarter of 2019, the Company classified the amortization of the deferred value of Maps, Siri and free iCloud services, which are bundled in the sales price of iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products, in services net sales.
Historically, the Company classified the amortization of these amounts in products net sales consistent with its management reporting framework.
As a result, products and services net sales information for the second quarter and first six months of 2018 was reclassified to conform to the 2019 presentation.
The following table shows net sales by category for the three- and six-month periods ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Products net sales include amortization of the deferred value of unspecified software upgrade rights, which are bundled in the sales price of the respective product.
(2)Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales include sales of AirPods, Apple TV, Apple Watch, Beats products, HomePod, iPod touch and Apple-branded and third-party accessories.
(3)Services net sales include sales from the Company’s digital content stores and streaming services, AppleCare, Apple Pay, licensing and other services.
Services net sales also include amortization of the deferred value of Maps, Siri and free iCloud services, which are bundled in the sales price of certain products.
Year-over-year Mac net sales increased during the first six months of 2019 due primarily to higher net sales of MacBook Air, partially offset by lower net sales of iMac.
iPad



iPad net sales increased during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to higher net sales of iPad Pro®.
Apple Inc. | Q2 2019 Form 10-Q | 26



Wearables, Home and Accessories



Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales increased during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to higher net sales of Apple Watch and AirPods.
Services



Services net sales increased during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to the App Store, licensing and AppleCare.
Segment Operating Performance



The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis.
The Company’s reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific.
Americas includes both North and South America.
Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa.
Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Company’s other reportable segments.
Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region.
Further information regarding the Company’s reportable segments can be found in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 11, “Segment Information and Geographic Data.”



The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for the three- and six-month periods ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Americas



Americas net sales increased during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to higher Services and Wearables, Home and Accessories net sales, partially offset by lower iPhone net sales.
The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Americas net sales during the second quarter and first six months of 2019.
The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Europe net sales during the second quarter and first six months of 2019.
Japan



Japan net sales during the second quarter of 2019 were relatively flat compared to the same quarter in 2018, as higher Services and iPad net sales were primarily offset by lower iPhone net sales.
Year-over-year Japan net sales decreased during the first six months of 2019 due primarily to lower iPhone net sales, partially offset by higher Services and iPad net sales.
The value of the Japanese Yen relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact on Japan net sales during the second quarter of 2019.
Apple Inc. | Q2 2019 Form 10-Q | 27



Rest of Asia Pacific



Rest of Asia Pacific net sales decreased during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to lower iPhone net sales, partially offset by higher Wearables, Home and Accessories and iPad net sales.
The weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact on Rest of Asia Pacific net sales during the second quarter and first six months of 2019.
Gross Margin



Products and services gross margin and gross margin percentage for the three- and six-month periods ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 were as follows (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Products Gross Margin



Products gross margin decreased during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to lower iPhone unit sales and the weakness in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar.
Services Gross Margin



Services gross margin increased during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 due primarily to a different services mix.
The Company anticipates total gross margin percentage during the third quarter of 2019 to be between 37.0% and 38.0%.
The foregoing statement regarding the Company’s expected total gross margin percentage in the third quarter of 2019 is forward-looking and could differ from actual results.
Apple Inc. | Q2 2019 Form 10-Q | 28



Operating Expenses



Operating expenses for the three- and six-month periods ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 were as follows (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Research and Development



The growth in research and development (“R&D”) expense during the second quarter and first six months of 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018 was driven primarily by increases in headcount-related expenses and infrastructure-related costs.
The Company continues to believe that focused investments in R&D are critical to its future growth and competitive position in the marketplace, and to the development of new and updated products and services that are central to the Company’s core business strategy.
Selling, General and Administrative



The growth in selling, general and administrative expense during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the same quarter in 2018 was driven primarily by higher spending on marketing and advertising and increases in headcount-related expenses.
Other Income/(Expense), Net



Other income/(expense), net for the three- and six-month periods ended March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018 was as follows (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The increase in other income/(expense), net during the second quarter of 2019 compared to the same quarter in 2018 was due primarily to the impact of foreign exchange–related items, partially offset by higher interest expense and lower interest income.
The weighted-average interest rate earned by the Company on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was 2.27% and 2.14% in the second quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 2.23% and 2.12% in the first six months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company’s effective tax rate for the first six months of 2019 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate due primarily to the lower tax rate on foreign earnings and tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The Company’s effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2019 was higher compared to the same quarter in 2018 due primarily to higher taxes on foreign earnings, partially offset by a lower statutory federal income tax rate in 2019.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



Hedging



In August 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities (“ASU 2017-12”).
ASU 2017-12 expands component and fair value hedging, specifies the presentation of the effects of hedging instruments, and eliminates the separate measurement and presentation of hedge ineffectiveness.
The Company will adopt ASU 2017-12 in its first quarter of 2020 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method.
Based on the Company’s derivative portfolio and hedging strategies, the adoption of ASU 2017-12 is not expected to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Financial Instruments



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”), which modifies the measurement of expected credit losses on certain financial instruments.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-13 in its first quarter of 2021 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method.
Based on the composition of the Company’s investment portfolio, current market conditions, and historical credit loss activity, the adoption of ASU 2016-13 is not expected to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Leases



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”), which modifies lease accounting for lessees to increase transparency and comparability by recording lease assets and liabilities for operating leases and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 utilizing the modified retrospective transition method through a cumulative-effect adjustment at the beginning of its first quarter of 2020.
While the Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2016-02, based on the lease portfolio as of March 30, 2019, the Company anticipates recording lease assets and liabilities of approximately $9 billion on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, with no material impact to its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
However, the ultimate impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 will depend on the Company’s lease portfolio as of the adoption date.
Apple Inc. | Q2 2019 Form 10-Q | 30



Liquidity and Capital Resources



The following tables present selected financial information and statistics as of March 30, 2019 and September 29, 2018 and for the first six months of 2019 and 2018 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company believes its existing balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, will be sufficient to satisfy its working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, share repurchases, debt repayments and other liquidity requirements associated with its existing operations over the next 12 months.
In connection with the State Aid Decision, as of March 30, 2019, the entire recovery amount of €13.1 billion plus interest of €1.2 billion was funded into escrow, where it will remain restricted from general use pending conclusion of all appeals.
The Company’s marketable securities investment portfolio is primarily invested in highly rated securities, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss.
The Company’s investment policy generally requires securities to be investment grade and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer.
During the six months ended March 30, 2019, cash generated by operating activities of $37.8 billion was a result of $31.5 billion of net income and non-cash adjustments to net income of $9.2 billion, partially offset by a decrease in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $2.9 billion.
Cash generated by investing activities of $19.2 billion during the six months ended March 30, 2019 consisted primarily of proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $25.7 billion, partially offset by cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $5.7 billion.
Cash used in financing activities of $43.1 billion during the six months ended March 30, 2019 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $32.5 billion, cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $7.0 billion and cash used to repay term debt of $2.5 billion.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, cash generated by operating activities of $43.4 billion was a result of $33.9 billion of net income and an increase in the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $35.8 billion, partially offset by non-cash adjustments to net income of $26.3 billion.
Cash generated by investing activities of $15.1 billion during the six months ended March 31, 2018 consisted primarily of proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $22.4 billion, partially offset by cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $7.0 billion.
Cash used in financing activities of $33.8 billion during the six months ended March 31, 2018 consisted primarily of cash used to repurchase common stock of $32.9 billion and cash used to pay dividends and dividend equivalents of $6.5 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of term debt of $7.0 billion.
Capital Assets



The Company’s capital expenditures were $3.3 billion during the first six months of 2019.
The Company anticipates utilizing approximately $12.0 billion for capital expenditures during 2019, which includes product tooling and manufacturing process equipment; data centers; corporate facilities and infrastructure, including information systems hardware, software and enhancements; and retail store facilities.
Apple Inc. | Q2 2019 Form 10-Q | 31



Debt



The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant to a commercial paper program.
The Company uses the net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases.
As of March 30, 2019, the Company had $11.9 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding, with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.56% and maturities generally less than nine months.
As of March 30, 2019, the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $101.2 billion (collectively the “Notes”).
During the first six months of 2019, the Company repaid $2.5 billion of its Notes upon maturity.
The Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into interest rate swaps to manage interest rate risk on the Notes.
In addition, the Company has entered, and in the future may enter, into foreign currency swaps to manage foreign currency risk on the Notes.
Further information regarding the Company’s debt issuances and related hedging activity can be found in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 3, “Financial Instruments” and Note 6, “Debt.”



Capital Return Program



As of March 30, 2019, the Company had an authorized program to repurchase up to $100 billion of the Company’s common stock, of which $61.3 billion had been utilized.
During the six months ended March 30, 2019, the Company repurchased 164.7 million shares of its common stock for $32.2 billion, including 55.1 million shares initially delivered under a $12.0 billion accelerated share repurchase arrangement (“ASR”) dated February 2019.
On April 30, 2019, the Company announced the Board of Directors increased the share repurchase program authorization from $100 billion to $175 billion.
The Company’s share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares.
Under this program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act.
On April 30, 2019, the Company also announced the Board of Directors raised the Company’s quarterly cash dividend from $0.73 to $0.77 per share, beginning with the dividend to be paid during the third quarter of 2019.
The Company intends to increase its dividend on an annual basis, subject to declaration by the Board of Directors.
Contractual Obligations



Operating Leases



As of March 30, 2019, the Company’s total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $10.4 billion.
The Company’s retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding 10 years and generally contain multi-year renewal options.
Manufacturing Purchase Obligations



The Company utilizes several outsourcing partners to manufacture sub-assemblies for the Company’s products and to perform final assembly and testing of finished products.
These outsourcing partners acquire components and build product based on demand information supplied by the Company, which typically covers periods up to 150 days.
As of March 30, 2019, the Company expects to pay $26.2 billion under manufacturing-related supplier arrangements, which are primarily noncancelable.
Other Purchase Obligations



The Company’s other purchase obligations consist of noncancelable obligations to acquire capital assets, including product tooling and manufacturing process equipment, and noncancelable obligations related to advertising, licensing, R&D, internet and telecommunications services, content creation and other activities.
As of March 30, 2019, the Company had other purchase obligations of $6.7 billion.
Other Non-Current Liabilities



As of March 30, 2019, a significant portion of the other non-current liabilities in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet consisted of the $30.9 billion deemed repatriation tax payable imposed by the Act.
The Company’s remaining other non-current liabilities primarily consist of items for which the Company is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments.
The Company offers an iPhone Upgrade Program, which is available to customers who purchase a qualifying iPhone in the U.S., the U.K. and mainland China.
The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right to trade in that iPhone for a specified amount when purchasing a new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met.
The Company accounts for the trade-in right as a guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net of the fair value of such right, with subsequent changes to the guarantee liability recognized within net sales.
The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers.
Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers of the Company, and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of payments the Company could be required to make under these agreements due to the limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each claim.
While the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.
With the exception of Revenue Recognition and Impairment of Marketable Debt Securities, there have been no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates since the 2018 Form 10-K.



Revenue Recognition



The Company has identified up to three performance obligations regularly included in arrangements involving the sale of iPhone, Mac, iPad and certain other products.
The second performance obligation is the right to receive certain product-related bundled services, which include iCloud, Siri and Maps.
The third performance obligation is the right to receive, on a when-and-if-available basis, future unspecified software upgrades relating to the software bundled with each device.
Factors subject to change include the nature of the unspecified software upgrade rights and product-related bundled services offered, their estimated value and the estimated period they are expected to be provided.
Apple Inc. | Q2 2019 Form 10-Q | 33



Impairment of Marketable Debt Securities



The Company’s investments in marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value.
The Company regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine if any security is other-than-temporarily impaired, which would require the Company to record an impairment charge in the period any such determination is made.
