Item 1.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 1



Apple Inc.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Unaudited)



(In millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 2



Apple Inc.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Unaudited)



(In millions, except number of shares which are reflected in thousands and par value)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 3



Apple Inc.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)



(In millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 4



Apple Inc.



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)



Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Apple Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively “Apple” or the “Company”) designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories and third-party digital content and applications.
The Company’s products and services include iPhone®, iPad®, Mac®, Apple Watch®, AirPods®, Apple TV®, HomePod™, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS®, watchOS® and tvOS™ operating systems, iCloud®, Apple Pay® and a variety of other accessory, service and support offerings.
The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store®, App Store®, Mac App Store, TV App Store, iBooks Store® and Apple Music® (collectively “Digital Content and Services”).
The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers.
In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its retail and online stores.
The Company sells to consumers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers.
Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, the condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which are normal and recurring in nature, necessary for fair financial statement presentation.
Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.
These condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read in conjunction with the Company’s annual consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
The Company’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period that ends on the last Saturday of September.
The first quarter of 2018 spanned 13 weeks, whereas a 14th week was added to the first fiscal quarter of 2017, as is done every five or six years, to realign the Company’s fiscal quarters with calendar quarters.
Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in September and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years.
Share-Based Compensation



During the first quarter of 2018, the Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (“ASU 2016-09”), which modified certain aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income taxes, classification of awards and classification in the statement of cash flows.
Historically, excess tax benefits or deficiencies from the Company’s equity awards were recorded as additional paid-in capital in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and were classified as a financing activity in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The Company elected to apply the cash flow classification requirements related to excess tax benefits retrospectively to all periods presented, which resulted in an increase to cash generated by operating activities in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of $534 million for the nine months ended July 1, 2017.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 5



Earnings Per Share



The following table shows the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 (net income in millions and shares in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 2 – Financial Instruments



Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities



The following tables show the Company’s cash and available-for-sale securities by significant investment category as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 6



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Level 1 fair value estimates are based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
(2)Level 2 fair value estimates are based on observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
The maturities of the Company’s long-term marketable securities generally range from one to five years.
The following tables show information about the Company’s marketable securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and for 12 months or greater as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 7



The Company typically invests in highly rated securities, and its investment policy generally limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer.
The policy generally requires securities to be investment grade, with the primary objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss.
Fair values were determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio.
When evaluating an investment for other-than-temporary impairment, the Company reviews factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below its cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and any changes thereto, changes in market interest rates and the Company’s intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the investment before recovery of the investment’s cost basis.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company does not consider any of its investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
Derivative Financial Instruments



The Company may use derivatives to partially offset its business exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risk on expected future cash flows, on net investments in certain foreign subsidiaries and on certain existing assets and liabilities.
There can be no assurance the hedges will offset more than a portion of the financial impact resulting from movements in foreign currency exchange or interest rates.
To help protect gross margins from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, certain of the Company’s subsidiaries whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar may hedge a portion of forecasted foreign currency revenue, and subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar and who sell in local currencies may hedge a portion of forecasted inventory purchases not denominated in the subsidiaries’ functional currencies.
The Company may enter into forward contracts, option contracts or other instruments to manage this risk and may designate these instruments as cash flow hedges.
The Company generally hedges portions of its forecasted foreign currency exposure associated with revenue and inventory purchases, typically for up to 12 months.
In both of these cases, the Company designates these instruments as net investment hedges.
To help protect the Company’s foreign currency–denominated term debt or marketable securities from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the Company may enter into forward contracts, cross-currency swaps or other instruments.
These instruments may offset a portion of the foreign currency remeasurement gains or losses, or changes in fair value.
The Company may designate these instruments as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company’s hedged term debt– and marketable securities–related foreign currency transactions are expected to be recognized within 24 years.
The Company may also enter into non-designated foreign currency contracts to partially offset the foreign currency exchange gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies.
To help protect the Company’s foreign currency–denominated term debt or marketable securities from fluctuations in interest rates, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps, options or other instruments.
These instruments may offset a portion of the changes in interest income or expense, or changes in fair value.
The Company designates these instruments as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company’s hedged interest rate transactions are expected to be recognized within 9 years.
Cash Flow Hedges



The effective portions of cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (“AOCI”) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.
The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness testing of cash flow hedges are recognized in other income/(expense), net.
Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges must be de-designated as hedges when it is probable the forecasted hedged transaction will not occur in the initially identified time period or within a subsequent two-month time period.
Deferred gains and losses in AOCI associated with such derivative instruments are reclassified into other income/(expense), net in the period of de-designation.
Any subsequent changes in fair value of such derivative instruments are reflected in other income/(expense), net unless they are re-designated as hedges of other transactions.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 8



Net Investment Hedges



The effective portions of net investment hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income/(loss) (“OCI”) as a part of the cumulative translation adjustment.
The ineffective portions and amounts excluded from the effectiveness testing of net investment hedges are recognized in other income/(expense), net.
Fair Value Hedges



Gains and losses related to changes in fair value hedges are recognized in earnings along with a corresponding loss or gain related to the change in value of the underlying hedged item.
Non-Designated Derivatives



Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are adjusted to fair value through earnings in the financial statement line item to which the derivative relates.
As a result, during the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively, the Company recognized a gain of $135 million and a loss of $7 million in net sales, a gain of $151 million and a loss of $61 million in cost of sales and a gain of $254 million and a loss of $119 million in other income/(expense), net.
During the three- and nine-month periods ended July 1, 2017, respectively, the Company recognized a loss of $77 million and a gain of $129 million in net sales, gains of $12 million and $91 million in cost of sales and gains of $49 million and $481 million in other income/(expense), net.
The Company records all derivatives in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
The Company’s accounting treatment for these derivative instruments is based on its hedge designation.
The following tables show the Company’s derivative instruments at gross fair value as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)The fair value of derivative assets is measured using Level 2 fair value inputs and is recorded as other current assets and other non-current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 9



The following table shows the pre-tax gains and losses of the Company’s derivative and non-derivative instruments designated as cash flow, net investment and fair value hedges in OCI and the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table shows the notional amounts of the Company’s outstanding derivative instruments and credit risk amounts associated with outstanding or unsettled derivative instruments as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 10



The notional amounts for outstanding derivative instruments provide one measure of the transaction volume outstanding and do not represent the amount of the Company’s exposure to credit or market loss.
The credit risk amounts represent the Company’s gross exposure to potential accounting loss on derivative instruments that are outstanding or unsettled if all counterparties failed to perform according to the terms of the contract, based on then-current currency or interest rates at each respective date.
Although the table above reflects the notional and credit risk amounts of the Company’s derivative instruments, it does not reflect the gains or losses associated with the exposures and transactions that the instruments are intended to hedge.
The Company generally enters into master netting arrangements, which are designed to reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty.
To further limit credit risk, the Company generally enters into collateral security arrangements that provide for collateral to be received or posted when the net fair value of certain financial instruments fluctuates from contractually established thresholds.
The Company presents its derivative assets and derivative liabilities at their gross fair values in its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of June 30, 2018, the net cash collateral posted by the Company related to derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $211 million, which was recorded as other current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
As of September 30, 2017, the net cash collateral received by the Company related to derivative instruments under its collateral security arrangements was $35 million, which was recorded as accrued expenses in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Under master netting arrangements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the potential effects of these rights of set-off associated with the Company’s derivative contracts, including the effects of collateral, would be a reduction to both derivative assets and derivative liabilities of $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, resulting in a net derivative liability of $403 million and a net derivative asset of $32 million, respectively.
Accounts Receivable



Trade Receivables



The Company has considerable trade receivables outstanding with its third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers, resellers, small and mid-sized businesses and education, enterprise and government customers.
The Company generally does not require collateral from its customers; however, the Company will require collateral or third-party credit support in certain instances to limit credit risk.
In addition, when possible, the Company attempts to limit credit risk on trade receivables with credit insurance for certain customers or by requiring third-party financing, loans or leases to support credit exposure.
These credit-financing arrangements are directly between the third-party financing company and the end customer.
As such, the Company generally does not assume any recourse or credit risk sharing related to any of these arrangements.
The Company had no customers that individually represented 10% or more of total trade receivables as of June 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2017, the Company had two customers that individually represented 10% or more of total trade receivables, each of which accounted for 10%.
The Company’s cellular network carriers accounted for 45% and 59% of total trade receivables as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Vendor Non-Trade Receivables



The Company has non-trade receivables from certain of its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale of components to these vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company.
The Company purchases these components directly from suppliers.
As of September 30, 2017, the Company had three vendors that individually represented 10% or more of total vendor non-trade receivables, which accounted for 42%, 19% and 10%.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 11



Note 3 – Condensed Consolidated Financial Statement Details



The following tables show the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statement details as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in millions):



Inventories



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Property, Plant and Equipment, Net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Non-Current Liabilities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Income/(Expense), Net



The following table shows the detail of other income/(expense), net for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 12



Note 4 – Income Taxes



U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and Provisional Estimates



On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”), which significantly changed U.S. tax law.
During the first quarter of 2018, the Company’s income tax expense included a provisional estimate of $2.6 billion in accordance with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
This $2.6 billion provisional estimate included $1.8 billion related to the impact of remeasuring the Company’s deferred tax balances to reflect the new lower tax rate, and approximately $800 million associated with the net impact of the deemed repatriation tax.
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company reduced its estimate of the deemed repatriation tax by $1.0 billion and adjusted the estimated impact of the deemed repatriation tax on unrecognized tax benefits by $700 million, resulting in the reduction of the Company’s provisional estimate from $2.6 billion to $900 million.
During the second quarter of 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
The Company elected to apply the provision of ASU 2018-02 at the beginning of the second quarter of 2018 with a reclassification of net tax benefits related to cumulative foreign currency translation and unrealized gains/losses on derivative instruments and marketable securities, resulting in a $278 million decrease in AOCI and a corresponding increase in retained earnings in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company reduced its provisional tax payable by $1.0 billion to $37.0 billion due, in part, to revised estimates of the amount of cash and other specified assets anticipated to be held by the Company’s foreign subsidiaries as of September 29, 2018.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits



As of June 30, 2018, the Company had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $9.4 billion.
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company increased the estimated impact of the deemed repatriation tax on unrecognized tax benefits by $700 million, resulting in a revised total estimated impact of $1.8 billion.
The Company had accrued $1.3 billion of gross interest and penalties as of June 30, 2018.
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service concluded its review of the years 2013 through 2015 during the third quarter of 2018.
All years prior to 2016 are now closed.
European Commission State Aid Decision



On August 30, 2016, the European Commission announced its decision that Ireland granted state aid to the Company by providing tax opinions in 1991 and 2007 concerning the tax allocation of profits of the Irish branches of two subsidiaries of the Company (the “State Aid Decision”).
The State Aid Decision ordered Ireland to calculate and recover additional taxes from the Company for the period June 2003 through December 2014.
The recovery amount was calculated to be €13 billion, plus interest of €1 billion.
Irish legislative changes, effective as of January 2015, eliminated the application of the tax opinions from that date forward.
The Company believes the State Aid Decision to be without merit and appealed to the General Court of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
Ireland has also appealed the State Aid Decision.
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company began funding amounts into escrow, where they will remain pending conclusion of all appeals.
As of June 30, 2018, €4.5 billion of the recovery amount was funded into escrow and was restricted from general use.
Refer to Note 2, “Financial Instruments” for more information.
Subsequent to June 30, 2018, the Company has funded an additional €4.5 billion of the recovery amount into escrow.
Note 5 – Debt



Commercial Paper



The Company issues unsecured short-term promissory notes (“Commercial Paper”) pursuant to a commercial paper program.
The Company uses net proceeds from the commercial paper program for general corporate purposes, including dividends and share repurchases.
As of both June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had $12.0 billion of Commercial Paper outstanding with maturities generally less than nine months.
The weighted-average interest rate of the Company’s Commercial Paper was 2.03% as of June 30, 2018 and 1.20% as of September 30, 2017.
The following table provides a summary of cash flows associated with the issuance and maturities of Commercial Paper for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Term Debt



As of June 30, 2018, the Company had outstanding floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $104.1 billion (collectively the “Notes”).
The Notes are senior unsecured obligations, and interest is payable in arrears, quarterly for the U.S. dollar–denominated and Australian dollar–denominated floating-rate notes, semi-annually for the U.S. dollar–denominated, Australian dollar–denominated, British pound–denominated, Japanese yen–denominated and Canadian dollar–denominated fixed-rate notes and annually for the euro-denominated and Swiss franc–denominated fixed-rate notes.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 14



The following table provides a summary of the Company’s term debt as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



To manage interest rate risk on certain of its U.S. dollar–denominated fixed- or floating-rate notes, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps to effectively convert the fixed interest rates to floating interest rates or the floating interest rates to fixed interest rates on a portion of these notes.
Additionally, to manage foreign currency risk on certain of its foreign currency–denominated notes, the Company has entered into foreign currency swaps to effectively convert these notes to U.S. dollar–denominated notes.
A portion of the Company’s Japanese yen–denominated notes is designated as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of the Company’s net investment in a foreign operation.
As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the carrying value of the debt designated as a net investment hedge was $349 million and $1.6 billion, respectively.
For further discussion regarding the Company’s use of derivative instruments, see the Derivative Financial Instruments section of Note 2, “Financial Instruments.”



The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest on the Notes, amortization of the discount or premium and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
The Company recognized $780 million and $2.2 billion of interest expense on its term debt for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company recognized $574 million and $1.6 billion of interest expense on its term debt for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 1, 2017, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the fair value of the Company’s Notes, based on Level 2 inputs, was $103.1 billion and $106.1 billion, respectively.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 15



Note 6 – Shareholders’ Equity



Share Repurchase Program



During the third quarter of 2018, the Company repurchased 112.8 million shares of its common stock for $20.0 billion in connection with two separate share repurchase programs.
Of the $20.0 billion, $10.4 billion was repurchased under the Company’s previous share repurchase program of up to $210 billion, thereby completing that program.
On May 1, 2018, the Company announced the Board of Directors had authorized a new program to repurchase up to $100 billion of the Company’s common stock.
The remaining $9.6 billion repurchased during the third quarter of 2018 was in connection with the new share repurchase program.
The Company’s new share repurchase program does not obligate it to acquire any specific number of shares.
Under this program, shares may be repurchased in privately negotiated and/or open market transactions, including under plans complying with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Note 7 – Comprehensive Income



Comprehensive income consists of two components, net income and OCI.
The Company’s OCI consists of foreign currency translation adjustments from those subsidiaries not using the U.S. dollar as their functional currency, net deferred gains and losses on certain derivative instruments accounted for as cash flow hedges and unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities classified as available-for-sale.
The following table shows the pre-tax amounts reclassified from AOCI into the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, and the associated financial statement line item, for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table shows the changes in AOCI by component for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Refer to Note 4, “Income Taxes” for more information on the Company’s adoption of ASU 2018-02 at the beginning of the second quarter of 2018.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 16



Note 8 – Benefit Plans



Stock Plans



The Company had 280.4 million shares reserved for future issuance under its stock plans as of June 30, 2018.
Restricted stock units (“RSUs”) granted generally vest over four years, based on continued employment, and are settled upon vesting in shares of the Company’s common stock on a one-for-one basis.
Each share issued with respect to RSUs granted under the Company’s stock plans reduces the number of shares available for grant under the plans by two shares.
RSUs canceled and shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations increase the number of shares available for grant under the plans utilizing a factor of two times the number of RSUs canceled or shares withheld.
Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans



During the three months ended June 30, 2018, Section 16 officers Angela Ahrendts, Timothy D. Cook, Chris Kondo, Luca Maestri, Daniel Riccio, Philip Schiller and Jeffrey Williams had equity trading plans in place in accordance with Rule 10b5-1(c)(1) under the Exchange Act.
Restricted Stock Units



A summary of the Company’s RSU activity and related information for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The fair value as of the respective vesting dates of RSUs was $3.3 billion and $6.9 billion for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and was $2.8 billion and $5.4 billion for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 1, 2017, respectively.
Share-Based Compensation



The following table shows a summary of the share-based compensation expense included in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 (in millions): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The income tax benefit related to share-based compensation expense was $528 million and $1.5 billion for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and was $380 million and $1.3 billion for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 1, 2017, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to outstanding RSUs and stock options was $10.4 billion, which the Company expects to recognize over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years.
The Company offers an iPhone Upgrade Program, which is available to customers who purchase a qualifying iPhone in the U.S., the U.K. and mainland China.
The iPhone Upgrade Program provides customers the right to trade in that iPhone for a specified amount when purchasing a new iPhone, provided certain conditions are met.
The Company accounts for the trade-in right as a guarantee liability and recognizes arrangement revenue net of the fair value of such right, with subsequent changes to the guarantee liability recognized within revenue.
The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers.
Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers of the Company and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with related legal proceedings.
While the Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise.
Concentrations in the Available Sources of Supply of Materials and Product



Although most components essential to the Company’s business are generally available from multiple sources, a few components are currently obtained from single or limited sources.
In addition, the Company competes for various components with other participants in the markets for mobile communication and media devices and personal computers.
The Company uses some custom components that are not commonly used by its competitors, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source.
Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decide to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 18



Substantially all of the Company’s hardware products are manufactured by outsourcing partners that are located primarily in Asia, with some Mac computers manufactured in the U.S. and Ireland.
Although the Company works closely with its outsourcing partners on manufacturing schedules, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected if its outsourcing partners were unable to meet their production commitments.
The Company’s manufacturing purchase obligations typically cover its requirements for periods up to 150 days.
Other Off–Balance Sheet Commitments



Operating Leases



The Company leases various equipment and facilities, including retail space, under noncancelable operating lease arrangements.
The Company does not currently utilize any other off–balance sheet financing arrangements.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company’s total future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases were $9.6 billion.
The Company’s retail store and other facility leases typically have original terms not exceeding 10 years and generally contain multi-year renewal options.
Unconditional Purchase Obligations



The Company has entered into certain off–balance sheet arrangements which require the future purchase of goods or services (“unconditional purchase obligations”).
The Company’s unconditional purchase obligations primarily consist of payments for supplier arrangements, internet and telecommunication services and intellectual property licenses.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company’s total future payments under noncancelable unconditional purchase obligations having a remaining term in excess of one year were $8.5 billion.
On September 30, 2016, a jury returned a verdict in VirnetX I against the Company and awarded damages of $302 million, which later increased to $440 million in post-trial proceedings.
VirnetX I is currently on appeal at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the “Federal Circuit”).
On April 11, 2018, a jury returned a verdict in VirnetX II against the Company and awarded damages of $503 million.
VirnetX II is currently in post-trial proceedings and is expected to proceed to appeal thereafter.
In response, the PTO has declared the VirnetX Patents invalid.
VirnetX has appealed, and those appeals are currently pending at the Federal Circuit.
The Federal Circuit has consolidated the Company’s appeal of the Eastern Texas District Court VirnetX I verdict and VirnetX’s appeals from the PTO invalidity proceedings.
The Company believes it will prevail on the merits.
Qualcomm



On January 20, 2017, the Company filed a lawsuit against Qualcomm Incorporated and affiliated parties (“Qualcomm”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California seeking, among other things, to enjoin Qualcomm from requiring the Company to pay royalties at the rate demanded by Qualcomm.
As the Company does not believe the demanded royalty it has historically paid contract manufacturers for each applicable device is fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory, and believes it to be invalid and/or overstated in other respects as well, no Qualcomm-related royalty payments have been remitted by the Company to its contract manufacturers since the beginning of the second quarter of 2017.
The Company believes it will prevail on the merits of the case and has accrued its best estimate for the ultimate resolution of this matter.
Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 19



Note 10 – Segment Information and Geographic Data



The Company reports segment information based on the “management” approach.
The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of the Company’s reportable segments.
The Company manages its business primarily on a geographic basis.
The Company’s reportable segments consist of the Americas, Europe, Greater China, Japan and Rest of Asia Pacific.
Americas includes both North and South America.
Europe includes European countries, as well as India, the Middle East and Africa.
Greater China includes China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
Rest of Asia Pacific includes Australia and those Asian countries not included in the Company’s other reportable segments.
Although the reportable segments provide similar hardware and software products and similar services, each one is managed separately to better align with the location of the Company’s customers and distribution partners and the unique market dynamics of each geographic region.
The accounting policies of the various segments are the same as those described in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2017 Form 10-K.
The Company evaluates the performance of its reportable segments based on net sales and operating income.
Net sales for geographic segments are generally based on the location of customers and sales through the Company’s retail stores located in those geographic locations.
Advertising expenses are generally included in the geographic segment in which the expenditures are incurred.
The Company does not include intercompany transfers between segments for management reporting purposes.
The following table shows information by reportable segment for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 20



A reconciliation of the Company’s segment operating income to the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017 is as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Apple Inc. | Q3 2018 Form 10-Q | 21
