The description below includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously discussed in "Risk Factors” set forth in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
Continuing uncertainty regarding the stability of global credit and financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders for our products and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities.
Significant disruption to global credit and financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to access external financing sources on acceptable terms.
Financial difficulties experienced by our customers could result in nonpayment or payment delays for previously purchased products, thereby increasing our credit risk exposure.
Uncertainty regarding the future stability of the global credit and financial markets could cause the value of the currency in the affected markets to deteriorate, thus reducing the purchasing power of those customers.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers, distributors or customers could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
Our future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share are difficult to predict and may be materially affected by a number of factors, including:



•the effects of adverse economic conditions in the markets in which we sell our products;



•changes in customer demand for our products and/or for end products that incorporate our products;



•the timing, delay, reduction or cancellation of significant customer orders and our ability to manage inventory;



•fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;



•our ability to accurately forecast distributor demand for our products;



•our ability to accurately estimate future distributor pricing credits and/or stock rotation rights;



•our ability to effectively manage our cost structure in both the short term and over a longer duration;



•changes in geographic, product or customer mix;



•changes in our effective tax rates or new or revised tax legislation in the United States, Ireland or worldwide; 



•the effects of issued, threatened or retaliatory government sanctions, trade barriers or economic restrictions, changes in law, regulations or other restrictions, including executive orders, changes in import and export regulations, export classifications or changes in duties and tariffs, particularly with respect to China; 



•the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us, our customers or our competitors and the market acceptance of such products;



•pricing decisions and competitive pricing pressures;



•fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability of wafers and other raw materials, and manufacturing, assembly and test capacity;



•the ability of our third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers to supply us with sufficient quantities of raw materials, products and/or components;



•a decline in infrastructure spending by foreign governments, including China;



34



•a decline in the U.S. government defense budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities, a prolonged U.S. government shutdown or delays in contract awards;



•any significant decline in our backlog;



•our ability to recruit, hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of engineers and other qualified employees to meet the demands of our customers;



•our ability to generate new design opportunities and win competitive bid selection processes;



•the increasing costs of providing employee benefits worldwide, including health insurance, retirement plan and pension plan contributions and retirement benefits; 



•our ability to utilize our manufacturing facilities at efficient levels;



•potential significant litigation-related costs or product warranty and/or indemnity claims, including those not covered by our suppliers or insurers;



•the difficulties inherent in forecasting future operating expense levels, including with respect to costs associated with labor, utilities, transportation and raw materials;



•the costs related to compliance with increasing worldwide government, environmental and social responsibility regulations; 



•new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; and



•the effects of public health emergencies, natural disasters, widespread travel disruptions, security risks, terrorist activities, international conflicts and other events beyond our control.
In addition, the semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant economic upturns and downturns.
There can be no assurance (i) that products stocked in our inventory will not be rendered obsolete before we ship them, or (ii) that we will be able to design, develop and produce products in a timely fashion to accommodate changing customer demand.
As a result of these and other factors, we may experience material fluctuations in future revenue, gross margins, operating results, net income and earnings per share on a quarterly or annual basis.
We completed the acquisition of Linear, which we refer to as the Acquisition, on March 10, 2017.
The success of the Acquisition, including the achievement of anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Acquisition, is subject to a number of uncertainties and will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate Linear's business into our business in an efficient and effective manner.
Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter in the integration process include the following: 



•the inability to successfully integrate Linear's business into our own in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings and operating synergies anticipated to result from the Acquisition, which could result in the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition not being realized partly or wholly in the time frame currently anticipated or at all;



•integrating personnel, IT systems and corporate, finance and administrative infrastructures of the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products and services;



•coordinating and integrating our internal operations, compensation and benefits programs, policies and procedures, and corporate structures; and



•servicing the substantial debt that we have incurred in connection with the Acquisition.
Our effective tax rate for the first six months of the fiscal year ending November 2, 2019 was below our U.S. federal statutory rate of 21%.
It was also below our blended U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 23.4% for the fiscal year ended November 3, 2018.
In addition, we have a partial tax holiday through July 2025 in Malaysia.
The ability to extend such tax holiday beyond its expiration date cannot be assured.
Any significant increase in our future effective tax rate could adversely impact our net income during future periods.
Changes in these laws and regulations, including those that align to or are associated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) Actions Plans, could impact the jurisdictions where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn adversely affect our tax liability and results of operations.
We primarily rely on patent, mask work, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes.
Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, reverse engineer, use or disclose our technologies, products and processes.
In addition, any of our existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
As such, any rights granted under these patents may not provide us with adequate protection.
We may not be able to obtain foreign patents or pending applications corresponding to our U.S. patents and applications.
Even if patents are granted, enforcement may not be available or achieved under the circumstances.
If our patents and mask works do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours.
Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents.
We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners.
We also try to control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information.
Despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our products or technology without our authorization.
Also, former employees may seek employment with our business partners, customers or competitors, and there can be no assurance that the confidential nature of our proprietary information will be maintained in the course of such future employment.
We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to keep financial records and customer data, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, assist in semiconductor engineering and other technical activities and operate other critical functions such as Internet connectivity, network communications and email.
Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, employee malfeasance, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events.
We also rely upon external cloud providers for certain infrastructure activities.
We may also be subject to security breaches of our information technology systems 



36



and certain of our products caused by viruses, illegal break-ins or hacking, sabotage, or acts of vandalism by third parties or our employees or contractors.
Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches, defects, bugs or errors.
In addition, we provide our confidential and proprietary information to our strategic partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business.
While we employ confidentiality agreements to protect such information, nonetheless those third parties may also be subject to security breaches or otherwise compromise the protection of such information.
Security breaches of our information technology systems or those of our partners could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential and proprietary information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage.
We typically do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers.
In certain markets where end-user demand may be particularly volatile and difficult to predict, some customers place orders that require us to manufacture product and have it available for shipment, even though the customer is unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the product.
In other instances, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands, which may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis.
Additionally, our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts may be funded in increments over a number of government budget periods and typically can be terminated by the government for its convenience.
As a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products that are subject to these uncertainties, the amount of unsaleable product could be substantial.
Our future success depends upon our ability to execute our business strategy, continue to innovate, improve our existing products, design, develop, produce and market new products, and identify and enter new markets.
Our future success significantly depends on our continued ability to execute our business strategy, continue to improve our existing products and design, develop, produce and market innovative new products and system-level solutions.
Product design, development, innovation and enhancement is often a complex, time-consuming and costly process involving significant investment in research and development, with no assurance of return on investment.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and introduce new and improved products in a timely or efficient manner or that new and improved products, if developed, will achieve market acceptance.
Our products generally must conform to various evolving and sometimes competing industry standards, which may adversely affect our ability to compete in certain markets or require us to incur significant costs.
In addition, our customers generally impose very high quality and reliability standards on our products, which often change and may be difficult or costly to satisfy.
Any inability to satisfy customer quality and reliability standards or comply with industry standards and technical requirements may adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations.
In addition, our growth is dependent on our ability to generate new design opportunities and win competitive bid selection processes.
Failure to obtain or maintain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining or maintaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product and could also weaken our position in future competitive selection processes.
Our growth is also dependent on our ability to identify and penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and competition is intense.
Some of our customers in new markets are less established, which could subject us to increased credit risk.
Additionally, developing markets, such as the Industry 4.0, autonomous driving, artificial intelligence and 5G, require significant investments, resources and technological advancements in order to compete effectively and there can be no assurance that we will achieve success in these markets.
We may not be able to compete successfully in markets within the semiconductor industry in the future.
We face intense competition in the semiconductor industry, and we expect this competition to increase in the future, including from companies located outside of the United States.
Competition is generally based on innovation, design, quality and reliability of products, product performance, features and functionality, product pricing, availability and capacity, technological service and support, and the availability of integrated system solutions, with the relative importance of these factors varying among products, markets and customers.
Many companies have sufficient financial, manufacturing, technical, sales and marketing resources to develop and market products that compete with our products.
Some of our competitors may have more advantageous supply or development relationships with our current and potential customers or suppliers.
Our 



37



competitors also include emerging companies selling specialized products in markets we serve and entities outside of the U.S., including entities associated with well-funded efforts by foreign governments to create indigenous semiconductor industries.
In addition, as we seek to expand our business, including the design and production of products and services for developing and emerging markets, we may encounter increased competition from our current competitors and/or new competitors.
In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation over the past several years.
Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, which could negatively impact our competitive position and market share and harm our results of operations.
We rely on third-party suppliers, subcontractors and manufacturers for some industry-standard wafers, manufacturing processes, assembly and test services, and transportation, and we generally cannot control their availability or conditions of supply.
We rely, and plan to continue to rely, on third-party suppliers, assembly and test subcontractors, freight carriers and wafer fabricators (collectively, suppliers) to supply most of our products that can be manufactured using industry-standard processes.
This reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over availability, capacity utilization, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs.
We currently source approximately half of our wafer requirements annually from third-party wafer fabrication foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), Global Foundries, Vanguard, and others.
In addition, these suppliers often provide manufacturing services to our competitors and therefore periods of increased industry demand may result in capacity constraints.
In certain instances, the third-party supplier is the sole source of highly specialized processing services.
If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to manufacture and deliver components to us on the time schedule and of the quality or quantity that we require or provide us with required manufacturing processes, we may be forced to seek to engage additional or replacement suppliers, which could result in additional expenses and delays in product development or shipment of product to our customers.
If additional or replacement suppliers or manufacturing processes are not available, we may also experience delays in product development or shipment which could, in turn, result in the temporary or permanent loss of customers.
In addition to leveraging an outsourcing model for manufacturing operations, we also rely on our internal manufacturing operations located in the United States, Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia.
A prolonged disruption at, or inability to utilize, one or more of our manufacturing facilities, loss of raw materials or damage to our manufacturing equipment for any reason, including due to natural or man-made disasters, civil unrest or other events outside of our control, such as widespread outbreaks of illness or the failure to maintain our labor force at one or more of these facilities, may disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in us being unable to timely satisfy customer demand.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to service our debt obligations, including making payments on our outstanding term loans and senior unsecured notes.
Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness when due, including the significant indebtedness that we incurred in connection with the Acquisition, depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our outstanding debt, we may be required to, among other things:



•seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;



•refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness;



•borrow under our revolving credit facility;



•divert funds that would otherwise be invested in our operations;



•repatriate earnings as dividends from foreign locations, attracting foreign withholding and state and local income taxes;



•sell selected assets; or



38



•reduce or delay planned capital expenditures or operating expenditures.
Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, which could negatively impact our financial results.
In addition, we may not be able to obtain any such financing, refinancing or complete a sale of assets on economically favorable terms.
In the case of financing or refinancing, favorable interest rates will depend on the health of the debt capital markets.
Our significant existing indebtedness could also have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes or creating competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels.
The markets for semiconductor products are cyclical, and increased production may lead to overcapacity and lower prices, and conversely, we may not be able to satisfy unexpected demand for our products.
The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry has resulted in periods when demand for our products has increased or decreased rapidly.
The demand for our products is subject to the strength of our four major end markets of Industrial, Communications, Automotive and Consumer.
These capacity expansions by us and other semiconductor manufacturers could also lead to overcapacity in our target markets which could lead to price erosion that would adversely impact our operating results.
Conversely, during periods of rapid increases in demand, our available capacity may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand.
Semiconductor products are highly complex and may contain defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are developed.
Failures in our products and services or in the products of customers could result in damage to our reputation for reliability and increase our legal or financial exposure to third parties.
Certain of our products and services could also contain security vulnerabilities, defects, bugs and errors, which could also result in significant data losses, security breaches and theft of intellectual property.
We generally warrant our products to our customers for one year from the date title passes from us.
We invest significant resources in the testing of our products; however, if any of our products contain defects, we may be required to incur additional development and remediation costs pursuant to warranty and indemnification provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders.
These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others, including liability for costs and expenses associated with product recalls, which may adversely impact our operating results.
We may also be subject to customer indemnity claims.
Those customers may seek indemnification from us under the terms and conditions of our sales contracts with them.
In certain cases, our potential indemnification liability may be significant.
The fabrication of integrated circuits is highly complex and precise, and our manufacturing processes utilize a substantial amount of technology.
Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional.
While we have significant expertise in semiconductor manufacturing, it is possible that some processes could become unstable.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights.
There can be no assurance that we are adequately insured to protect against all claims and potential liabilities, and we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters.
An adverse outcome in litigation or arbitration could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or on our operating results or cash flows in the period in which the dispute is resolved.
If we are unable to recruit or retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be adversely affected.
Our continued success depends to a significant extent upon the recruitment, retention and effective succession of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers.
The competition for these employees is intense.
The inability to attract, hire and retain key employees with critical technical skills to achieve our strategy, including as a result of changes to immigration policies, could also have a material adverse effect on our business.
In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on our business should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel.
We do not maintain any key person life insurance policy on any of our officers or other employees.
To remain competitive, we may need to invest in or acquire other companies, purchase or license technology from third parties, or enter into other strategic transactions in order to introduce new products or enhance our existing products.
An element of our business strategy involves expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, diversify our product portfolio, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce, expand our technical skill sets or enhance our technological capabilities.
Acquisitions, investments and technology licenses are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including the cost of potential transactions, competition among prospective buyers and licensees, the need for regulatory approvals, and difficulties related to integration efforts.
In addition, investments in private companies are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of our investment.
Both in the U.S. and abroad, governmental regulation of acquisitions, including antitrust reviews and approvals, has become more complex, increasing the costs and risks of undertaking and consummating significant acquisitions.
In order to finance a potential transaction, we may need to raise additional funds by issuing securities or borrowing money.
We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, and the sale of our stock may result in the dilution of our existing shareholders or the issuance of securities with rights that are superior to the rights of our common shareholders.
Acquisitions also involve a number of challenges and risks, including:



•difficulty or delay integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with our existing businesses;



•diversion of management's attention in connection with both negotiating the transaction and integrating the assets;



•strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger or more complex operations;



•the future funding requirements for acquired companies, which may be significant;



•potential loss of key employees;



•exposure to unforeseen liabilities or regulatory compliance issues of acquired companies; 



•higher than expected or unexpected costs relating to or associated with an acquisition and integration of assets;



•difficulty realizing synergies and growth prospects of an acquisition in a timely manner or at all; and



•increased risk of costly and time-consuming legal proceedings.
We rely on supplies, services and manufacturing capacity located in geologically unstable areas, which could affect our ability to produce products.
We, like many companies in the semiconductor industry, rely on supplies, services, internal manufacturing capacity, wafer fabrication foundries and other subcontractors in geologically unstable locations around the world.
Earthquakes, 



40



tsunamis, flooding or other natural disasters may disrupt local semiconductor-related businesses and adversely affect manufacturing capacity, availability and cost of key raw materials, utilities and equipment, and availability of key services, including transport of our products worldwide.
Our insurance may not adequately cover losses resulting from such disruptions.
We have significant operations and manufacturing facilities outside the United States, including in Ireland, the Philippines, Singapore and Malaysia.
A significant portion of our revenue is derived from customers in international markets, and we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue in the future.
Risks associated with our international business operations include the following: 



•political, legal and economic changes, crises or instability and civil unrest in foreign markets;



•currency conversion risks and exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations;



•trade policy, trade, travel, export or taxation disputes or restrictions, government sanctions, import or export tariffs, changes to export classifications or other restrictions imposed by the U.S. government or by the governments of the countries in which we do business, particularly in China; 



•complex, varying and changing government regulations and legal standards and requirements, particularly with respect to price protection, competition practices, export control regulations and restrictions, customs and tax requirements, immigration, anti-boycott regulations, data privacy, intellectual property, anti-corruption and environmental compliance, including U.S. customs and export regulations and restrictions, International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;



•economic disruption from terrorism and threats of terrorism and the response to them by the U.S. and its allies;



•increased managerial complexities, including different employment practices and labor issues;



•changes in immigration laws, regulations and procedures and enforcement practices of various government agencies;



•greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights;



•natural disasters or pandemics;



•transportation disruptions and delays and increases in labor and transportation costs;



•changes to foreign taxes, tariffs and freight rates;



•fluctuations in raw material costs and energy costs;



•greater difficulty in accounts receivable collections and longer collection periods; and



•costs associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans.
Many of these risks are present in China.
While we expect to continue to expand our business and operations in China, our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by China’s continuously evolving policies, laws and regulations, including those relating to trade, taxation, import and export tariffs or restrictions, currency controls, antitrust, cybersecurity and data protection, the environment, indigenous innovation and the promotion of a domestic semiconductor industry, and intellectual property rights and enforcement and protection of those rights.
Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent.
In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies, international trade policies and relations, or U.S.-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions on imports or exports, currency revaluations, or retaliatory actions , which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results.
At May 4, 2019, our principal source of liquidity was $713.6 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $267.7 million was held in the United States and the remaining balance was held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries.
We continue to assert our intent to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely.
41



As we intend to reinvest substantially all of our foreign earnings indefinitely, certain cash held outside the United States may not be available for repatriation as dividends to the United States in the future.
We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends and acquisitions.
Our operating results are dependent on the performance of independent distributors.
A significant portion of our sales are through independent global and regional distributors that are not under our control.
Arrow Electronics is currently our sole global distributor.
These independent distributors generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or they could terminate their representation of us.
We generally do not require letters of credit from our distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or declarations of bankruptcy by these distributors.
Our inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our operating results.
Termination of a significant distributor or a group of distributors, whether at our initiative or the distributor’s initiative or through consolidation in the distribution industry, could disrupt our current business, and if we are unable to find suitable replacements with the appropriate scale and resources, our operating results could be adversely affected.
Effective November 4, 2018, all distributor sales are recognized upon shipment to the distributor under Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09).
We are now required to estimate the effects of returns and allowances provided to distributors and record revenue at the time of sale to the distributor.
We are subject to environmental, health and safety (EHS) regulations, which could increase our expenses and affect our operating results.
Our industry is subject to EHS requirements, particularly those environmental requirements that control and restrict the sourcing, use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, and materials used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process.
Public attention to environmental, sustainability and social responsibility concerns continues to increase, and our customers routinely include stringent environmental and other standards in their contracts with us.
In addition, we use hazardous and other regulated materials that subject us to risks of strict liability for damages caused by potential or actual releases of such materials.
Any failure to control such materials adequately or to comply with existing or future EHS statutory or regulatory standards, requirements or contractual obligations could result in any of the following, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results:



•liability for damages and remediation; 



•the imposition of regulatory penalties and civil and criminal fines; 



•the suspension or termination of the development, manufacture, sale or use of certain of our products; 



•changes to our manufacturing processes or a need to substitute materials that may cost more or be less available;



•damage to our reputation; and/or 



increased expenses associated with compliance.
If we fail to comply with government contracting regulations, we could suffer a loss of revenue or incur price adjustments or other penalties.
Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the United States government and subcontracts with its prime contractors.
As a United States government contractor or subcontractor, we are subject to federal contracting regulations, including the Federal Acquisition Regulations, which govern the allowability of costs incurred by us in the performance of United States government contracts.
Certain contract pricing is based on estimated direct and indirect costs, which are subject to change.
Additionally, the United States government is entitled after final payment on certain negotiated contracts to examine all of our cost records with respect to such contracts and to seek a downward adjustment to the price of the contract if it determines that we failed to furnish complete, accurate and current cost or pricing data in connection with the negotiation of the price of the contract.
In connection with our United States government business, we are also subject to government audits and to review and approval of our policies, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws.
In certain circumstances, if we do not comply with the terms of a contract or with regulations or statutes, we could be subject to 



42



downward contract price adjustments or refund obligations or could in extreme circumstances be assessed civil and criminal penalties or be debarred or suspended from obtaining future contracts for a specified period of time.
Any such suspension or debarment or other sanction could have an adverse effect on our business.
Under some of our government subcontracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards.
If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were unable to obtain or maintain their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue.
Restrictions in our revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments may limit our activities.
Our current revolving credit facility, term loans and outstanding debt instruments impose, and future debt instruments to which we may become subject may impose, restrictions that limit our ability to engage in activities that could otherwise benefit our Company, including to undertake certain transactions, to create certain liens on our assets and to incur certain subsidiary indebtedness.
Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in technology, government regulations and the level of competition.
In addition, our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios.
If we breach any of the covenants under our revolving credit facility, the indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes, the term loans or any future debt instruments to which we may become subject and do not obtain appropriate waivers, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable or we may be restricted from further borrowing under our revolving credit facility.
and foreign government actions, including with respect to trade, travel, export and taxation;



•changes in market valuations of other semiconductor companies;



•rumors and speculation in the press, investment community or on social media about us, our customers or other companies in our industry;



•announcements by us, our customers or our competitors of significant new products, technical innovations, material transactions, acquisitions or dispositions, litigation, capital commitments or revised earnings estimates;



•departures of key personnel;



•alleged noncompliance with laws, regulations or ethics standards by us or any of our employees, officers or directors; and



•negative media publicity targeting us or our suppliers, customers or competitors.
The stock market has historically experienced volatility, especially within the semiconductor industry, that often has been unrelated to the performance of particular companies.
Our directors and executive officers periodically sell shares of our common stock in the market, including pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans.
43



ITEM 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(a)Includes 358,528 shares withheld by us from employees to satisfy minimum employee tax obligations upon vesting of restricted stock units/awards granted to our employees under our equity compensation plans.
(b)The average price paid for shares in connection with vesting of restricted stock units/awards are averages of the closing stock price at the vesting date which is used to calculate the number of shares to be withheld.
(c)Shares repurchased pursuant to the stock repurchase program publicly announced on August 12, 2004.
Under the repurchase program, we may repurchase outstanding shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market and through privately negotiated transactions in an aggregate amount of up to $8.2 billion.
Unless terminated earlier by resolution of our Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program.
44



ITEM 6.Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Attached as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and six months ended May 4, 2019 and May 5, 2018, (ii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three and six months ended May 4, 2019 and May 5, 2018, (iii) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at May 4, 2019 and November 3, 2018, (iv) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the three and six months ended May 4, 2019 and May 5, 2018, (v) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the six months ended May 4, 2019 and May 5, 2018 and (vi) Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and six months ended May 4, 2019.
45
