ITEM 1.Financial Statements



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
1



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
2



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
3



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



(thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
4



ANALOG DEVICES, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



FOR THE THREE AND NINE MONTHS ENDED AUGUST 4, 2018



(all tabular amounts in thousands except per share amounts and percentages)



Note 1 – Basis of Presentation



In the opinion of management, the information furnished in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements reflects all normal recurring adjustments that are necessary to fairly state the results for these interim periods and should be read in conjunction with Analog Devices, Inc.’s (the Company) Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017 (fiscal 2017) and related notes.
On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed the acquisition of Linear Technology Corporation (Linear), a designer, manufacturer and marketer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
The acquisition of Linear is referred to as the Acquisition.
The condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include the financial results of Linear prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
See Note 13, Acquisitions, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Certain amounts reported in previous periods have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal 2018 presentation.
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09).
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, excess tax benefits from share-based payments are presented within operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The Company applied this change in presentation retrospectively and has adjusted the prior year presentation by removing the reclass of $30.2 million of excess tax benefit-stock options from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash provided by financing activities.
All other reclassified amounts are immaterial.
The Company has a 52-53 week fiscal year that ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October.
Fiscal 2018 is a 53-week fiscal year and fiscal 2017 was a 52-week fiscal year.
The additional week in fiscal 2018 was included in the first quarter ended February 3, 2018.
Therefore, the first nine months of fiscal 2018 included an additional week of operations as compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Revenue from product sales to customers in other foreign countries is recognized subsequent to product shipment.
Title for shipments to these other foreign countries ordinarily passes within a week of shipment.
Accordingly, the Company defers the revenue recognized relating to these other foreign countries until title has passed.
For multiple element arrangements, the Company allocates arrangement consideration among the elements based on the relative fair values of those elements as determined using vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence.
The Company uses its best estimate of selling price to allocate arrangement consideration between the deliverables in cases where neither vendor-specific objective evidence nor third-party evidence is available.
A reserve for sales returns and allowances for customers is recorded based on historical experience or specific identification of an event necessitating a reserve.
The output measure is used to measure results directly and is generally the best measure of progress toward completion in circumstances in which a reliable measure of output can be established.
Estimated revenue in excess of amounts billed is reported as unbilled receivables.
Contract accounting requires judgment in estimating costs and assumptions related to technical issues and delivery schedule.
The estimation of costs at completion of a contract is subject to numerous variables involving contract costs and estimates as to the length of time to complete the contract.
Revenue on these sales is recognized upon shipment at which time title passes.
In addition, such distributors are allowed to return unsold products if the Company terminates the relationship with the distributor.
As a result, the distributor may request and receive a price-adjustment credit from the Company to allow the distributor to earn an appropriate margin on the transaction.
Generally, title to the inventory transfers to the distributor at the time of shipment or delivery to the distributor, and payment from the distributor is due in accordance with the Company’s standard payment terms.
These payment terms are not contingent upon the distributors’ sale of the products to their customers.
Product returns from distributors that are ultimately scrapped have historically been immaterial.
The Company continuously monitors the level and nature of product returns and is in frequent contact with the distributors to ensure reserves are established for all known material issues.
As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company had gross deferred revenue of $679.9 million and $589.5 million, respectively, and gross deferred cost of sales of $132.6 million and $115.5 million, respectively.
The Company generally offers a twelve-month warranty for its products.
The Company’s warranty policy provides for replacement of defective products.
Specific accruals are recorded for known product warranty issues.
Product warranty expenses during each of the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were not material.
Note 3 – Stock-Based Compensation



A summary of the Company’s stock option activity as of August 4, 2018 and changes during the three- and nine-month periods then ended is presented below:



6



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)In addition to the vested options, the Company expects a portion of the unvested options to vest at some point in the future.
The number of options expected to vest is calculated by applying an estimated forfeiture rate to the unvested options.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $29.3 million and $111.9 million, respectively, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $22.8 million and $88.4 million, respectively.
During the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017, the total intrinsic value of options exercised (i.e., the difference between the market price at exercise and the price paid by the employee to exercise the options) was $19.9 million and $109.0 million, respectively, and the total amount of proceeds received by the Company from the exercise of these options was $18.0 million and $105.2 million, respectively.
That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.
The total grant-date fair value of shares that vested during the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 was approximately $28.2 million and $112.7 million, respectively.
The total grant-date fair value of shares that vested during the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 was approximately $28.3 million and $95.2 million, respectively.
Note 4 – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)



The following table provides the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) by component and the related tax effects during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI with presentation location during each period were as follows:



8



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________



(a) The amortization of pension components is included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
For further information see Note 13, Retirement Plans, contained in Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 28, 2017.
The Company estimates $4.5 million, net of tax, of losses of forward foreign currency derivative instruments included in OCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
There was no material ineffectiveness recorded within OCI related to designated forward foreign currency derivative instruments in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company held 14 investment securities, 6 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $65.0 million.
As of October 28, 2017, the Company held 18 investment securities, 8 of which were in an unrealized loss position with immaterial gross unrealized losses and an aggregate fair value of $143.9 million.
These unrealized losses were primarily related to corporate obligations that earn lower interest rates than current market rates.
None of these investments have been in a loss position for more than twelve months.
As the Company does not intend to sell these investments and it is unlikely that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized basis, which will be at maturity, the Company does not consider those investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017.
Realized gains or losses on investments are determined based on the specific identification basis and are recognized in nonoperating expense (income).
There were no material net realized gains or losses from the sales of available-for-sale investments during any of the fiscal periods presented.
Note 5 – Earnings Per Share



Basic earnings per share is computed based only on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential future issuances of common stock relating to stock option programs and other potentially dilutive securities using the treasury stock method.
In calculating diluted earnings per share, the dilutive effect of 



9



stock options and restricted stock units is computed using the average market price for the respective period.
In addition, the assumed proceeds under the treasury stock method include the average unrecognized compensation expense of stock options that are in-the-money and restricted stock units.
Those potential shares, determined based on the weighted average exercise prices during the respective periods, could be dilutive in the future.
In connection with the Acquisition, the Company granted restricted stock awards to replace outstanding restricted stock awards of Linear employees.
These restricted stock awards entitle recipients to voting and nonforfeitable dividend rights from the date of grant.
These unvested stock-based compensation awards are considered participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating earnings per share.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to these participating securities and therefore is excluded from the calculation of earnings per share allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
The difference between the income allocated to participating securities under the basic and diluted two-class methods is not material.
As a result of these assessments, the Company has undertaken various restructuring actions over the past several years.
These actions are described below.
The following tables display the special charges taken for ongoing actions and a roll-forward from October 28, 2017 to August 4, 2018 of the employee separation and exit cost accruals established related to these actions.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Closure of Manufacturing Facilities



During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a special charge of $41.2 million as a result of its decision to consolidate certain wafer and test facility operations acquired as part of the Acquisition.
Over the next three to five years, the Company plans to close its Hillview wafer fabrication facility located in Milpitas, California and its Singapore test facility.
In addition, the Company is planning to transition testing operations currently handled in its Singapore facility to its facilities in Penang, Malaysia and the Philippines, in addition to its outsourced assembly and test partners.
The special charge was for severance and fringe benefit costs in accordance with the Company's ongoing benefit plan or statutory requirements at foreign locations for 1,249 manufacturing, engineering and selling, marketing, general and administrative (SMG&A) employees.
During the second and third quarters of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded special charges totaling $2.2 million in the aggregate related to one-time termination benefits for employees included in this action.
These one-time termination benefits are being recognized over the future service period required for employees to earn these benefits.
Employees included in this action must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is terminated in order to receive the severance benefits.
The accrual related to this action is included in other non-current liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 4, 2018.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company still employed 5 of the 123 employees included in this cost reduction action.
These employees must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is involuntarily terminated in order to receive the severance benefits.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company recorded special charges of approximately $8.1 million for severance and fringe benefit costs in accordance with the Company's ongoing benefit plan or statutory requirements at foreign locations for 177 manufacturing, engineering and SMG&A employees.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company still employed 2 of the 177 employees included in this cost reduction action.
These employees must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is terminated in order to receive the severance benefits.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded special charges of approximately $16.1 million for severance and fringe benefit costs in accordance with the Company's ongoing benefit plan or statutory requirements at foreign locations for 126 manufacturing, engineering and SMG&A employees.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company still employed 7 of the 126 employees included in this cost reduction action.
These employees must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is terminated in order to receive the severance benefits.
The accrual related to these actions is included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 4, 2018.
11



Early Retirement Offer Action



During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company initiated an early retirement offer.
This resulted in a special charge of approximately $41.3 million for severance, related benefits and other costs in accordance with this program for 225 manufacturing, engineering and SMG&A employees.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company still employed 2 of the 225 employees included in these cost reduction actions.
These employees must continue to be employed by the Company until their employment is terminated in order to receive the severance benefits.
The accrual related to this action is included in accrued liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 4, 2018.
Note 7 – Segment Information



In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company completed organizational changes designed to integrate the operations of Linear into the Company’s organizational structure and to reflect the evolution of the Company's markets.
As a result of these organizational changes, the Company re-evaluated its reporting structure under the new organization and concluded that the Company continues to operate in one reportable segment based on the aggregation of eight operating segments.
The Chief Executive Officer has been identified as the Company's Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Company has determined that all of the Company's operating segments share the following similar economic characteristics, and therefore meet the criteria established for operating segments to be aggregated into one reportable segment, namely:



•The primary source of revenue for each operating segment is the sale of ICs.
•The ICs sold by each of the Company's operating segments are manufactured using similar semiconductor manufacturing processes and raw materials in either the Company’s own production facilities or by third-party wafer fabricators using proprietary processes.
Many of these customers use products spanning all operating segments in a wide range of applications.
Additionally, each operating segment is subject to the overall cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry.
Lastly, the number and composition of employees and the amounts and types of tools and materials required for production of products are proportionately similar for each operating segment.
Revenue Trends by End Market



The following table summarizes revenue by end market for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
The categorization of revenue by end market is determined using a variety of data points including the technical characteristics of the product, the “sold to” customer information, the “ship to” customer information and the end customer product or application into which the Company’s product will be incorporated.
Such reclassifications typically do not materially change the sizing of, or the underlying trends of results within, each end market.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* The sum of the individual percentages may not equal the total due to rounding.
Revenue Trends by Geographic Region



Revenue by geographic region, based on the primary end customer location, for the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017, the predominant country comprising “Rest of North and South America” is Canada; the predominant countries comprising “Europe” are Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden; and the predominant countries comprising “Rest of Asia” are South Korea and Taiwan.
Note 8 – Fair Value



The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The Company applies the following fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
Level 1 — Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Level 2 — Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
If the asset or liability has a specified (contractual) term, a Level 2 input must be observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
Level 3 — Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date.
The tables below, set forth by level, presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding accrued interest components that are accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017.
The tables exclude cash on hand and assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair value.
As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company held $375.1 million and $296.2 million, respectively, of cash and held-to-maturity investments that were excluded from the tables below.
13



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)The Company has master netting arrangements by counterparty with respect to derivative contracts.
See Note 9, Derivatives, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to the Company's master netting arrangements.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)The Company has master netting arrangements by counterparty with respect to derivative contracts.
See Note 9, Derivatives, of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to the Company's master netting arrangements.
14



 In addition to the above, the Company has recognized contingent consideration payable at fair value (Level 3 measurement) of $7.6 million and $7.8 million as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
The changes in fair value in those periods were not material.
Deferred compensation plan investments — The fair value of these mutual fund, money market fund and equity investments are based on quoted market prices.
Forward foreign currency exchange contracts — The estimated fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which includes derivatives that are accounted for as cash flow hedges and those that are not designated as cash flow hedges, is based on the estimated amount the Company would receive if it sold these agreements at the reporting date taking into consideration current interest rates as well as the creditworthiness of the counterparty for assets and the Company’s creditworthiness for liabilities.
The fair value of these instruments is based upon valuation models using current market information such as strike price, spot rate, maturity date and volatility.
Interest rate derivatives — The fair value of the interest rate derivatives is estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the contractual terms of the derivative.
Contingent consideration — The fair value of the contingent consideration was estimated utilizing the income approach and is based upon significant inputs not observable in the market.
The income approach is based on two steps.
The first step involves a projection of the cash flows that is based on the Company’s estimates of the timing and probability of achieving the defined milestones.
The second step involves converting the cash flows into a present value equivalent through discounting.
The discount rate reflects the Baa costs of debt plus the relevant risk associated with the asset and the time value of money.
Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



The table below presents the estimated fair value of certain financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis.
The carrying amounts of the term loans approximate fair value.
The term loans are classified as Level 2 measurements according to the fair value hierarchy.
The fair values of the senior unsecured notes are obtained from broker prices and are classified as Level 1 measurements according to the fair value hierarchy.
Such exposures result from the portion of the Company’s operations, assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other 



15



than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro; other significant exposures include the Philippine Peso, the Japanese Yen and the British Pound.
The contracts are for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions, generally one year or less.
Hedges related to anticipated transactions are designated and documented at the inception of the respective hedges as cash flow hedges and are qualitatively evaluated for effectiveness quarterly.
Derivative instruments are employed to eliminate or minimize certain foreign currency exposures that can be confidently identified and quantified.
As the terms of the contract and the underlying transaction are matched at inception, forward contract effectiveness is calculated by comparing the change in fair value of the contract to the change in the forward value of the anticipated transaction, with the gain or loss on the derivative reported as a component of accumulated OCI in shareholders’ equity and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
The total notional amount of forward foreign currency derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments of cash flow hedges denominated in Euros, British Pounds, Philippine Pesos and Japanese Yen as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017 was $195.3 million and $194.3 million, respectively.
As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the total notional amount of these undesignated hedges was $63.1 million and $100.4 million, respectively.
The fair value of these hedging instruments in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet was immaterial as of August 4, 2018 and was a liability of $1.8 million as of October 28, 2017.
All of the Company’s derivative financial instruments are eligible for netting arrangements that allow the Company and its counterparties to net settle amounts owed to each other.
Derivative assets and liabilities that can be net settled under these arrangements have been presented in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet on a net basis.
As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, none of the master netting arrangements involved collateral.
The following table presents the gross amounts of the Company's derivative assets and liabilities and the net amounts recorded in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest Rate Exposure Management — The Company's current and future debt may be subject to interest rate risk.
The Company utilizes interest rate derivatives to alter interest rate exposure in an attempt to reduce the effects of these changes.
The counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company’s derivative instruments consist of a number of major international financial institutions with high credit ratings.
Based on the credit ratings of the Company’s counterparties as of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, nonperformance is not perceived to be a significant risk.
Furthermore, none of the Company’s derivatives are subject to collateral or other security arrangements and none contain provisions that are dependent on the Company’s credit ratings from any credit rating agency.
While the contract or notional amounts of derivative financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions, they do not represent the amount of the Company’s exposure to credit risk.
The amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties’ obligations under the contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.
16



The Company records the fair value of its derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements in other current assets, other assets or accrued liabilities, depending on their net position, regardless of the purpose or intent for holding the derivative contract.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments are either recognized periodically in earnings or in shareholders’ equity as a component of OCI.
Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in OCI and reclassified into earnings when the underlying contract matures and, for interest rate exposure derivatives, over the term of the corresponding debt instrument.
Changes in the fair values of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting are reported in earnings as they occur.
For information on the unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivatives included in and reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income into the condensed consolidated statement of income related to forward foreign currency exchange contracts, see Note 4, Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) of these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
Note 10 – Goodwill and Intangible Assets



Goodwill



The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment annually, utilizing either the qualitative or quantitative method, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable.
The Company tests goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which we have determined is consistent with our operating segments, on an annual basis on the first day of the fourth quarter (on or about August 4) or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist or the Company reorganizes its reporting units.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company completed organizational changes designed to integrate the operations of Linear into the Company’s organizational structure and to reflect the evolution of the Company's markets.
The Company performed an impairment analysis utilizing the quantitative method immediately prior to and subsequent to the reorganization and evaluated goodwill for impairment as of the date of reorganization.
When utilizing the quantitative method, the goodwill impairment test requires an entity to compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
The Company determines the fair value of its reporting units using a weighting of the income and market approaches.
For the market approach, the Company uses the guideline public company method.
In order to assess the reasonableness of the calculated reporting unit fair values, the Company reconciles the aggregate estimated fair values of its reporting units determined to its current market capitalization, allowing for a reasonable control premium.
If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, calculated using the above approaches, exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the amount of the carrying value that exceeds the amount of the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
There was no impairment of goodwill in any period presented.
The Company's next annual impairment assessment will be performed as of the first day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
The following table presents the changes in goodwill during the first nine months of fiscal 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Represents goodwill related to acquisitions that were not material to the Company on either an individual or aggregate basis.
Intangible Assets



The Company reviews finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of assets may not be recoverable.
If required, recoverability of these assets is determined by comparison of their carrying value to the estimated future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate over their remaining estimated useful lives.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized in earnings equals the 



17



amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value determined by either a quoted market price, if any, or a value determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow technique.
Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis on the first day of the fourth quarter (on or about August 4) or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist.
The impairment test involves a qualitative assessment on the indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine whether it is more likely-than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired.
If it is determined that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than the carrying value, the Company would recognize into earnings the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the estimated fair value.
No impairment of intangible assets resulted from the impairment tests in any of the periods presented.
Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or on an accelerated method of amortization that is expected to reflect the estimated pattern of economic use.
In-process research and development (IPR&D) assets are considered indefinite-lived intangible assets until completion or abandonment of the associated research and development (R&D) efforts.
Upon completion of the projects, the IPR&D assets are reclassified to technology-based intangible assets and amortized over their estimated useful lives.
As of August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017, the Company’s intangible assets consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



___________ 



(1) Foreign intangible asset carrying amounts are affected by foreign currency translation.
Intangible assets, along with the related accumulated amortization, are removed from the table above at the end of the fiscal year they become fully amortized.
For the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018, amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets was $143.2 million and $428.2 million, respectively.
For the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017, amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets was $147.2 million and $256.0 million, respectively.
The remaining amortization expense will be recognized over an estimated weighted average life of approximately 4.7 years.
The Company expects annual amortization expense for intangible assets to be:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 11 – Debt



 On March 12, 2018, in an underwritten public offering, the Company issued $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.850% senior unsecured notes due March 12, 2020 (the 2020 Notes) and $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.950% senior unsecured notes due January 12, 2021 (the January 2021 Notes and, together with the 2020 Notes, the Notes).
Interest on the 2020 Notes is payable on March 12 and September 12 of each year, beginning on September 12, 2018.
Interest on the January 2021 Notes is payable on January 12 and July 12 of each year, beginning on July 12, 2018.
The net proceeds of the offering were $743.8 million, after discount and issuance costs, which were used to repay a portion of the Company’s outstanding 5-year unsecured term loan.
Debt discount and issuance costs will be amortized through interest expense over the term of the Notes.
At any time prior to the applicable maturity date of the Notes, the Company may, at its option, redeem some or all of the applicable series of Notes by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of 



18



redemption.
The Notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company’s other unsecured senior indebtedness.
The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, as supplemented by a supplemental indenture, and the indenture and supplemental indenture contain certain covenants, events of default and other customary provisions.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company was in compliance with these covenants.
On November 10, 2017, the Company paid $300.0 million of principal on its 3-year unsecured term loan using cash on hand as of October 28, 2017.
This amount was not contractually due under the terms of the loan.
As such, this amount was classified as current in the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of October 28, 2017.
During the nine-month period ended August 4, 2018, the Company made additional principal payments of $1.0 billion on its 3-year unsecured term loan and $750.0 million on its 5-year unsecured term loan.
These amounts were not contractually due under the terms of the loans.
As of August 4, 2018, $22.5 million of principal on the 3-year unsecured term loan was classified as current debt as the Company intends to utilize cash on hand as of August 4, 2018 to repay this amount of debt within the next twelve months.
Note 12 – Inventories



Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
The valuation of inventory requires the Company to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality.
The Company employs a variety of methodologies to determine the net realizable value of its inventory.
While a portion of the calculation to record inventory at its net realizable value is based on the age of the inventory and lower of cost or market calculations, a key factor in estimating obsolete or excess inventory requires the Company to estimate the future demand for its products.
Inventory in excess of saleable amounts is not valued, and the remaining inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market.
Inventories at August 4, 2018 and October 28, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 13 – Acquisitions



Linear Technology Corporation



On March 10, 2017 (Acquisition Date), the Company completed its acquisition of all of the voting interests of Linear, an independent manufacturer of high performance analog integrated circuits.
The total consideration paid to acquire Linear, which consisted of cash, common stock of the Company and share-based compensation awards, was approximately $15.8 billion.
The Company believes that the combination creates the premier analog technology company with the industry’s most comprehensive suite of high-performance analog offerings.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded acquisition accounting adjustments of $1.6 million to goodwill comprised of $4.7 million to intangible assets, $2.7 million to accounts receivable, $2.4 million to assumed liabilities and $1.1 million to deferred tax liabilities.
The Acquisition accounting was completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information combines the unaudited results of the Company for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 and the unaudited results of Linear for the three- and nine-month periods ended July 29, 2017 and assumes that the Acquisition, which closed on March 10, 2017, was completed on November 1, 2015 (the first day of fiscal 2016).
19



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Acquisitions



The Company has not provided pro forma results of operations for any other acquisitions completed in the three- and nine-month periods ended August 4, 2018 or July 29, 2017 herein as they were not material to the Company on either an individual or an aggregate basis.
The Company included the results of operations of each acquisition in its consolidated statement of income from the date of each acquisition.
Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities.
However, as described below, the Company has made reasonable estimates of the effects on its existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a $639.7 million discrete tax benefit for the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21.0%.
There was no material change to this provisional estimate in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company recorded a provisional tax expense amount for the one-time transition tax of $687.1 million, which is comprised of the $751.1 million transition tax liability less a deferred tax liability of $64.0 million that was recorded in prior years.
There was no material change to this provisional estimate in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The Company intends to elect to pay this transition tax starting in fiscal 2019 without incurring interest over a period of eight years.
20



For the nine months ended August 4, 2018, the Company recorded a total of $24.2 million in discrete benefits for excess tax benefits from share-based payments, pursuant to ASU 2016-09, which became effective for fiscal 2018.
This consists of a $6.0 million discrete benefit arising in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 in addition to the $10.0 million and $8.2 million discrete benefits arising in the first quarter and second quarter of fiscal 2018, respectively.
The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740, No.
On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued guidance under Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Also in March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, to add various SEC paragraphs pursuant to the issuance of SAB 118, to Accounting Standards Codification topic 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740).
The Company will continue to refine its adjustments through the permissible measurement period, which is not to extend beyond one year after the enactment date.
The Company expects to complete its analysis of the effects on state and local income taxes on or before December 22, 2018 as allowed by SAB 118.
As the statute of limitations for Ireland's transfer pricing audit expires in the quarter ended November 3, 2018, the Company expects to receive formal correspondence from Ireland within the next several weeks.
ASU 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those years.
Early adoption is permitted.
ASU 2017-12 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of the fiscal year ending October 31, 2020 (fiscal 2020).
The Company early adopted ASU 2017-12 in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Stock Compensation



In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09).
ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2016 and allows for prospective, retrospective or modified retrospective adoption, depending on the area covered in the update, with early adoption permitted.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
These excess tax benefits are presented within operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The Company applied this change in presentation retrospectively and has adjusted the prior year presentation by removing the reclass of $30.2 million of excess tax benefit-stock options from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash provided by financing activities.
The Company elected not to change its policy on accounting for forfeitures and continues to estimate forfeitures expected to occur to determine the amount of compensation cost to be recognized in each period.
The adoption of ASU 2016-09 also changed the calculation of fully diluted shares outstanding.
The excess tax benefits have been excluded from the calculation of assumed proceeds in the Company's calculation of diluted weighted shares under the new standard.
Upon adoption of the new standard, the Company's diluted weighted shares outstanding increased by approximately 1.0 million shares.
Equity Method Investments



In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-07, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting (ASU 2016-07).
ASU 2016-07 eliminates the requirement that when an investment, initially accounted for under a method other than the equity method of accounting, subsequently qualifies for use of the equity method, an investor must retrospectively apply the equity method in prior periods in which it held the investment.
This requires an investor to determine the fair value of the investee’s underlying assets and liabilities retrospectively at each investment date and revise all prior periods as if the equity method had always been applied.
The new guidance requires the investor to apply the equity method prospectively from the date the investment qualifies for the equity method.
The investor will add the carrying value of the existing investment to the cost of the additional investment to determine the initial cost basis of the equity method investment.
ASU 2016-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years, and early adoption is permitted.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-07 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Inventory



In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330) - Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory (ASU 2015-11), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventories by replacing the lower of cost or market test with a 



22



lower of cost and net realizable value test.
The guidance applies only to inventories for which cost is determined by methods other than last-in first-out and the retail inventory method.
The guidance in ASU 2015-11 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and early adoption is permitted.
The Company adopted ASU 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Standards to Be Implemented



Comprehensive Income



In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
ASU 2018-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
Business Combinations



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805) Clarifying the Definition of a Business (ASU 2017-01).
ASU 2017-01 clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
The definition of a business affects many areas of accounting including acquisitions, disposals, goodwill, and consolidation.
The guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those periods.
The Company will adopt ASU 2017-01 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Income Taxes



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) (ASU 2016-16).
ASU 2016-16 will require an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual reporting period for which financial statements have not been issued or made available for issuance.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-16 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Statement of Cash Flows



In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (ASU 2016-15).
ASU 2016-15 provides guidance on several specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or extinguishment costs, settlement of certain debt instruments, contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of certain insurance claims and distributions received from equity method investees.
ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted in any interim or annual period.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-15 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date but does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-15 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Leases



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02).
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize most leases on the balance sheet but recognize expenses on the income statement in a manner similar to current practice.
The update states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying assets for the lease term.
Leases will continue to be classified as either financing or operating, with classification affecting the recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease.
In January 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-01, Leases (Topic 842): Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842 (ASU 2018-01).
ASU 2018-01 permits an entity to elect an optional transition practical expedient to not evaluate land easements that exist or expired before the entity’s adoption of Topic 842 and that were not previously accounted for as leases under Topic 840.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, Leases – Targeted Improvements (Topic 842) (ASU 2018-11), which provides for an additional transition method that allows companies to apply the new lease standard at the adoption date, eliminating the requirement to apply the standard to the earliest period presented in the financial statements.
ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-01 and ASU 2018-11 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-01 are effective for the 



23



Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact adoption will have on its financial position and results of operations.
Financial Instruments



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (ASU 2016-13).
ASU 2016-13 requires a financial asset (or group of financial assets) measured at amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
The allowance for credit losses is a valuation account that is deducted from the amortized cost basis of the financial asset(s) to present the net carrying value at the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU 2016-01).
ASU 2016-01 requires equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment to identify impairment; eliminates the requirement for public business entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value that is required to be disclosed for financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet; requires public business entities to use the exit price notion when measuring the fair value of financial instruments for disclosure purposes; requires an entity to present separately in other comprehensive income the portion of the total change in the fair value of a liability resulting from a change in the instrument-specific credit risk when the entity has elected to measure the liability at fair value in accordance with the fair value option for financial instruments; requires separate presentation of financial assets and financial liabilities by measurement category and form of financial assets on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the financial statements; and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on a deferred tax asset related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets.
ASU 2016-01 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
ASU 2016-01 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Stock Compensation



In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2018-07).
ASU 2018-07 expands the scope of Topic 718 to include all share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
ASU 2018-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year, with early adoption permitted.
ASU 2018-07 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting (ASU 2017-09).
The new guidance clarifies when a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as a modification.
ASU 2017-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted.
ASU 2017-09 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Revenue Recognition



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2014-09), which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The FASB has issued several amendments and updates to the new revenue standard, including guidance related to when an entity should recognize revenue gross as a principal or net as an agent and how an entity should identify performance obligations.
As amended, ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which is the Company's first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The Company will adopt ASU 2014-09, using the full retrospective method, upon its effective date for the Company which is the Company’s first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Note 16 – Subsequent Events



On August 21, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.48 per outstanding share of common stock.
The dividend will be paid on September 12, 2018 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018.
Also on August 21, 2018, the Company reinstated its share repurchase program, and its Board of Directors approved an increase to the current authorization for the stock repurchase program by an additional $2.0 billion to $8.2 billion in the aggregate.
Under the program, the Company may repurchase outstanding shares of common stock from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions.
25
