PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION 



ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 



Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 17 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this report.
ITEM 1A.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K an assessment by the Company’s management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
We must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent auditors to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404.
Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts.
As further described in Part I, Item 4 of this report, management has concluded that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2018 and continued through September 30, 2019.
Specifically, management has determined that controls were not effectively designed, documented, and maintained to verify that the existence of all inventories subject to our cycle count program were included and counted at the frequency required under the Company’s internal policies, and that the key reports and related data used to monitor the results of this program were not validated to ensure completeness and accuracy.
Furthermore, management has determined that controls were not effectively designed and maintained over the determination of the estimated reserve for excess and obsolete inventory, including the review of significant inputs and assumptions used to determine our excess and obsolete inventory reserve, and to ensure the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used in the calculation of this reserve.
Management has been working to further strengthen the Company’s internal controls relating to inventory.
Specifically, the Company has begun redesigning and enhancing additional controls and procedures to ensure the completeness of our cycle count program and the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used to monitor the results of this cycle count program.
Additionally, the Company has begun redesigning and implementing enhanced controls and procedures related to the review of significant inputs and assumptions used to determine our excess and obsolete inventory reserve, and to ensure the completeness and accuracy of key reports and related data used in the calculation of the excess and obsolete inventory reserve.
The implementation of these measures is ongoing, and, while we believe that they will ultimately be effective in remediating the material weaknesses described above, our initiatives may not prove successful, and management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective.
Furthermore, even if management were to reach such a conclusion, if our independent auditors are not satisfied with the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, or if the independent auditors interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then they in the future may decline to issue a report on our internal control over financial reporting or may issue a report that is qualified.
48 



Changes in trade policy in the United States and other countries, specifically China, including the imposition of additional tariffs and the resulting consequences, may adversely impact our gross profits, gross margins, results of operations and financial condition.
The U.S. government has imposed tariffs on a wide-range of products and goods manufactured in China and imported into the U.S.
These tariffs are intended to address trade imbalances, which include decreasing imports from China and encouraging increased production of these products in the U.S.
These proposals have, and could continue to, result in increased customs duties and tariffs.
These customs duties and tariffs may also cause other U.S. trading partners to take certain actions with respect to U.S. imports in their respective countries.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



The following table sets forth repurchases of our common stock for the months indicated: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



In July 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 5.0 million shares of our common stock (bringing the total shares authorized for repurchase under the stock repurchase programs since 1997 to 50.0 million).
This authorization will be implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant.
We currently have authorization to repurchase 2.5 million shares of our common stock under the current authorization of up to 5.0 million shares.
49 



ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS 



Exhibits.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



50
