ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



ADTRAN, INC. 



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(Unaudited) 



(In thousands, except per share amounts) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to consolidated financial statements 



5 



ADTRAN, INC. 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 



(Unaudited) 



(In thousands, except per share amounts) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to consolidated financial statements 



6 



ADTRAN, INC. 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



(Unaudited) 



(In thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to consolidated financial statements 



7 



ADTRAN, INC. 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(Unaudited) 



(In thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to consolidated financial statements 



8 



ADTRAN, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited) 



(In thousands, except per share amounts) 



1.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to fairly state these interim statements have been recorded and are of a normal and recurring nature.
The interim statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in ADTRAN’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed on February 23, 2018 with the SEC.
Actual amounts could differ significantly from these estimates.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements 



In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02).
ASU 2016-02 requires an entity to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and to disclose key information about the entity's leasing arrangements.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
A modified retrospective approach is required.
We believe the most significant impact relates to our accounting for operating leases for office space and equipment.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04).
ASU 2017-04 simplifies the measurement of goodwill by eliminating step 2 of the goodwill impairment test.
Under ASU 2017-04, entities will be required to compare the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value.
ASU 2017-04 is effective for annual or interim impairment tests performed in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for annual or interim impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017.
The amendments should be applied prospectively.
In August 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities (ASU 2017-12).
ASU 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
9 



During 2018, we adopted the following accounting standards, which had no material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows: 



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, including most industry-specific revenue recognition guidance throughout the Industry Topics of the Codification.
The core principle of ASU 2014-09 is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14, which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 to fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016.
Subsequently, the FASB issued ASUs in 2016 containing implementation guidance related to ASU 2014-09, including: ASU 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net), which is intended to improve the operability and understandability of the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations; ASU 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing, which is intended to clarify two aspects of Topic 606: identifying performance obligations and the licensing implementation guidance; ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients, which contains certain provisions and practical expedients in response to identified implementation issues; and ASU 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which is intended to clarify the Codification or to correct unintended application of guidance.
ASU 2014-09 allows for either full retrospective or modified retrospective adoption.
We adopted ASU 2014-09 and the related ASUs on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method, which was applied to all contracts on the date of initial adoption.
The two primary areas of impact of these ASUs were network implementation service revenue performance obligations and contract costs.
The output method will be used to measure network implementation services progress.
The primary impact will be accelerated revenue recognition for certain performance obligations related to service revenue arrangements that were previously deferred until customer acceptance and capitalization and amortization of incremental costs of obtaining a contract as described below.
In connection with the adoption of the new revenue standard, effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs - Contracts with Customers, with respect to capitalization and amortization of incremental costs of obtaining a contract.
The primary impact was capitalization of certain sales commissions for our extended maintenance and support contracts in excess of one year and amortization of those costs over the period that the related revenue is recognized.
The cumulative effect of the changes made to our Consolidated Balance Sheet on January 1, 2018 for the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the related ASUs was as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



10 



The impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the related ASUs on our financial statements was as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-01, Financial Instruments — Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (ASU 2016-01) which addresses certain aspects of the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.
ASU 2016-01 was effective beginning January 1, 2018 and we are now recognizing any changes in the fair value of certain equity investments in net income as prescribed by the new standard rather than in other comprehensive income.
We adopted ASU 2016-01 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method, which resulted in $3.2 million reclassification of net unrealized gains from accumulated other comprehensive income to opening retained earnings.
In March 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2017-07, Compensation – Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost (ASU 2017-07).
ASU 2017-07 amends ASC 715, Compensation — Retirement Benefits, to require employers that present a measure of operating income in their statements of earnings to include only the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in operating expenses (together with other employee compensation costs).
The other components of net benefit cost, including amortization of prior service cost/credit, and settlement and curtailment effects, are to be included in non-operating expenses.
We adopted ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018.
We retrospectively adopted the presentation of service cost separate from other components of net periodic pension costs.
2. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 



On March 19, 2018, we acquired Sumitomo Electric Lightwave Corp.’s (SEL) North American EPON business and entered into a technology license and OEM supply agreement with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. (SEI).
This acquisition establishes ADTRAN as the North American market leader for EPON solutions for the cable MSO industry and will accelerate the MSO market’s adoption of our open, programmable and scalable architectures.
This transaction was accounted for as a business combination.
These revenues are included in the Access & Aggregation and Customer Devices categories within the Network Solutions reportable segment.
11 



We recorded a bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million during the first quarter of 2018, net of income taxes, which is subject to customary working capital adjustments between the parties.
The bargain purchase gain of $11.3 million represents the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired over the cash paid.
SEI, an OEM supplier based in Japan, is a market leader in EPON.
SEI’s Broadband Networks Division through its SEL subsidiary operated a North American EPON business including sales, marketing, support, and region-specific engineering development.
The North American EPON market is primarily driven by the Tier 1 cable MSO operators and has developed slower than anticipated.
Through the transaction, SEI divested its North American EPON assets and established a relationship with ADTRAN.
This unaudited supplemental pro forma information does not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been completed on January 1, 2017, nor is it indicative of any future results.
Aside from revising the 2017 and 2018 net income for the effect of the bargain purchase gain, there were no material, non-recurring adjustments to this unaudited pro forma information.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months ended March 31, 2018, we incurred acquisition and integration related expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles of $0.2 million related to this acquisition.
3.
REVENUE 



Revenue is measured based on the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring goods or providing services to a customer and as performance obligations under the terms of the contract are satisfied.
Generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of a product or service to the customer.
The consideration, including any discounts, is allocated between separate products and services based on their stand-alone selling prices using the most likely amount.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which we sell the separate products and services.
Sales, value added, and other taxes collected concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue.
Capitalized costs with an amortization period greater than one year were immaterial.
The following is a description of the principal activities from which we generate our revenue by reportable segment.
Network Solutions Segment 



Network Solutions includes hardware products and next-generation virtualized solutions used in service provider or business networks, as well as prior generation products.
Shipping terms are generally FOB shipping point.
Revenue is recorded net of discounts and rebates using the most likely amount.
Customers are typically invoiced when control is transferred and revenue is recognized.
Our products generally include assurance-based warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects, which are accrued at the time revenue is recognized.
In certain transactions, we are also the lessor in sales-type lease arrangements for network equipment, which have terms of 18 months to five years.
These arrangements typically include network equipment, network implementation services and maintenance services.
Product revenue for these leases is generally recorded when we transfer control of the product to our customers.
Revenue for network implementation and maintenance services is recognized as described below.
Customers are typically invoiced and pay in equal installments over the lease term.
Services & Support Segment 



To complement our Network Solutions segment, we offer a complete portfolio of maintenance, network implementation, solutions integration and managed services, which include hosted, cloud services and subscription services.
13 



Maintenance 



Our maintenance service periods range from one month to five years.
Customers are typically invoiced and pay for maintenance services at the beginning of the maintenance period, which is recorded in current or non-current unearned revenue depending on the length of the service period.
Maintenance services are provided on an as-needed basis and our customers benefit evenly throughout the contract term.
Accordingly, we recognize revenue for maintenance services on a straight-line basis over the maintenance period in services revenue.
Network Implementation 



We recognize revenue for network implementation, which primarily consists of engineering, execution and enablement services, when performance obligations are complete at a point in time.
If we have recognized revenue, but not billed the customer, the right to consideration is recognized as a contract asset, which is included in other receivables in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The contract asset is transferred to accounts receivable when the right to consideration to payment becomes unconditional.
As of March 31, 2018, we did not have any remaining performance obligations related to customer contracts that had an original expected duration of one year or more, other than maintenance services, which are satisfied over time.
The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets, and unearned revenue from contracts with customers: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we recognized $3.5 million of revenue that was included in unearned revenue at the beginning of the period.
The following table disaggregates our revenue by major source: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



4.
INCOME TAXES 



Our effective tax rate decreased from 20.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2017, to 15.1%, excluding the tax impact of the bargain purchase gain, in the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The decrease in the effective tax rate between the two periods is primarily attributable to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
14 



5.
PENSION BENEFIT PLAN 



We maintain a defined benefit pension plan covering employees in certain foreign countries.
The following table summarizes the components of net periodic pension cost for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The components of net periodic pension cost other than the service cost component are included in the line item “Other income (expense), net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
6.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 



The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense related to stock options, performance stock units (PSUs), restricted stock units (RSUs) and restricted stock for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, which was recognized as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Stock Options 



The following table is a summary of our stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2017 and March 31, 2018 and the changes that occurred during the three months ended March 31, 2018: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The aggregate intrinsic values in the table above represent the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between the closing price of our stock on the last trading day of the quarter and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money stock options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options on March 31, 2018.
The aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of our stock.
15 



The total pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $33 thousand.
As of March 31, 2018, there was $2.5 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 1.3 years.
The fair value of our stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes model.
There were no stock options granted during the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017.
During the first quarter of 2017, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved a PSU grant of 0.5 million shares that contain performance conditions.
The fair value of these performance-based PSU awards was equal to the closing price of our stock on the date of grant.
As of March 31, 2018, there was $12.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested market-based PSUs, RSUs and restricted stock, which is expected to be recognized over an average remaining recognition period of 2.9 years.
In addition, there was $10.7 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested performance-based PSUs, which will be recognized over the requisite service period of three years as achievement of the performance objective becomes probable.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, no compensation expense was recognized related to these performance-based PSU awards.
7.
Realized gains and losses on sales of debt securities are computed under the specific identification method.
At March 31, 2018, we held a $26.7 million restricted certificate of deposit, which is carried at cost.
This investment serves as a collateral deposit against the principal amount outstanding under loans made to ADTRAN pursuant to an Alabama State Industrial Development Authority revenue bond (the Bond), which totaled $26.7 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Bond using a level 2 valuation technique was approximately $26.6 million and $26.7 million, respectively, based on a debt security with a comparable interest rate and maturity and a Standard and Poor’s credit rating of AAA.
The Bond matures on January 1, 2020, and bears interest at the rate of 2% per annum.
In conjunction with this program, we are eligible to receive certain economic incentives from the state of Alabama that reduce the amount of payroll withholdings we are required to remit to the state for those employment positions that qualify under this program.
It is our intent to make annual principal payments in addition to the interest amounts that are due.
17 



 Marketable Equity Securities 



Our marketable equity securities consist of publicly traded stocks or funds measured at fair value.
Prior to January 1, 2018, our marketable equity securities were classified as available-for-sale.
Realized gains and losses on marketable equity securities were included in net realized investment gain (loss).
Unrealized gains and losses were recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of deferred taxes, on the balance sheet.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2016-01, which requires us to measure all equity investments that do not result in consolidation and are not accounted for under the equity method at fair value, with any changes in fair value recognized in net realized investment gain (loss).
Upon adoption, we reclassified $3.2 million of net unrealized gains related to marketable equity securities from accumulated other comprehensive income to opening retained earnings.
We have categorized our cash equivalents and our investments held at fair value into a three-level fair value hierarchy based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique for the cash equivalents and investments as follows: Level 1 - Values based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market; Level 2 - Values based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or model inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly; Level 3 - Values based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.
These inputs include information supplied by investees.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



18 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The fair value of our Level 2 securities is calculated using a weighted average market price for each security.
These multiple market prices are used as inputs into a distribution-curve-based algorithm to determine the daily market value of each security.
8.
Cash Flow Hedges 



Our cash flow hedging activities utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the risk that movements in exchange rates will adversely affect the net cash flows resulting from the planned purchase of products from foreign suppliers.
Purchases of U.S. denominated inventory by our European subsidiary represent our primary exposure.
Amounts related to cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income when the underlying hedged item impacts earnings.
This reclassification is recorded in the same line item of the consolidated statements of income at which the effects of the hedged item are recorded, which is cost of sales.
Undesignated Hedges 



We have certain customers and suppliers who are invoiced or pay in a non-functional currency.
When appropriate, we utilize foreign exchange forward contracts to help manage the volatility relating to these valuation exposures.
Our derivative instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
Our derivative instruments are not subject to master netting arrangements and are not offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of March 31, 2018, we had no foreign exchange forward contracts.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, raw materials reserves totaled $15.2 million and $15.0 million, respectively, and finished goods inventory reserves totaled $8.9 million and $8.3 million, respectively.
10.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 



Goodwill, all of which relates to our acquisition of Bluesocket, Inc., was $3.5 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, of which $3.1 million and $0.4 million is allocated to our Network Solutions and Services & Support reportable segments, respectively.
We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual evaluations if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying amount.
We have elected to first assess the qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill is assigned is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step impairment test.
If we determine that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount, then the two-step impairment test will be performed.
There have been no impairment losses recognized since the acquisition in 2011.
Intangible assets are included in other assets in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and include intangibles acquired in conjunction with our acquisitions of Bluesocket, Inc. on August 4, 2011, the NSN BBA business on May 4, 2012, CommScope’s active fiber access business on September 13, 2016 and Sumitomo Electric Lightwave Corp.’s North American EPON business and technology license and OEM supply agreement with Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd. on March 19, 2018.
20 



The following table presents our intangible assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Fully amortized intangible assets have been removed from prior year balances for comparability.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Amortization expense, all of which relates to business acquisitions, was $0.4 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of March 31, 2018, the estimated future amortization expense of our intangible assets is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



11.
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 



A summary of the changes in stockholders’ equity for the three months ended March 31, 2018 is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Stock Repurchase Program 



Since 1997, our Board of Directors has approved multiple share repurchase programs that have authorized open market repurchase transactions of up to 50.0 million shares of our common stock, which will be implemented through open market or private purchases from time to time as conditions warrant.
As of March 31, 2018, we have the authority to purchase an additional 2.9 million shares of our common stock under the current plans approved by the Board of Directors.
21 



Stock Option Exercises 



We issued 24 thousand shares of treasury stock during the three months ended March 31, 2018 to accommodate employee stock option exercises.
The stock options had exercise prices ranging from $15.29 to $18.97.
See note 1 for more information.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



22 



The following tables present the details of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)  



Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)  



Included in the computation of net periodic pension cost.
See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 



A summary of the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Anti-dilutive options to purchase common stock outstanding were excluded from the above calculations.
Anti-dilutive options totaled 4.8 million and 4.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
13.
SEGMENT INFORMATION 



We operate in two reportable segments: (1) Network Solutions and (2) Services & Support.
Network Solutions includes hardware products and next-generation virtualized solutions used in service provider or business networks, as well as prior-generation products.
Services & Support includes our suite of ProCloud® managed services, network installation, engineering and maintenance services, and fee-based technical support and equipment repair/replacement plans.
There are no inter-segment revenues.
We do not produce asset information by reportable segment; therefore, it is not reported.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Sales by Category 



In addition to our reporting segments, we also report revenue for the following three categories – Access & Aggregation, Customer Devices, and Traditional & Other Products.
The table below presents sales information by category for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



24 



14.
LIABILITY FOR WARRANTY RETURNS 



Our products generally include warranties of 90 days to five years for product defects.
We engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers.
In addition, from time to time, specific warranty accruals may be recorded if unforeseen problems arise.
Alternatively, if we provide for more reserves than we require, we will reverse a portion of such provisions in future periods.
The liability for warranty obligations totaled $9.7 million at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
A summary of warranty expense and write-off activity for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



15.
We have committed to invest up to an aggregate of $7.9 million in two private equity funds, and we have contributed $8.4 million as of March 31, 2018, of which $7.7 million has been applied to these commitments.
16.
The payment date will be May 16, 2018.
The quarterly dividend payment will be approximately $4.3 million.
25
