 Item 2.
AstroNova is a multi-national enterprise that leverages its proprietary data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture, distribute and service a broad range of products that acquire, store, analyze and present data in multiple formats.
The Company organizes its structure around a core set of competencies, including research and development, manufacturing, service, marketing and distribution.
It markets and sells its products and services through the following two segments:  



   •    



Product Identification (PI) – offers digital label printers, over-printers, labeling software, spare parts, service contracts and related printing supplies such as pressure sensitive labels, tags, inks, toners and thermal transfer ribbons used in those product identification digital printers.
•    



Test and Measurement (T&M) – offers a suite of products and services that acquire data from local and networked data streams and sensors as well as wired and wireless networks.
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
The T&M segment also includes a line of aerospace printers that are used to print hard copies of data required for the safe and efficient operation of aircraft, including navigation maps, arrival and departure procedures, flight itineraries, weather maps, performance data, passenger data, and various air traffic control data.
Aerospace products also include Ethernet switches, which are used in military aircraft and military vehicles to connect multiple computers or Ethernet devices.
20   



Table of Contents 



Results of Operations  



Three Months Ended May 4, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended April 28, 2018  



Revenue by segment and current quarter percentage change over prior year for the three months ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018 were:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The first quarter of fiscal 2020 consisted of a 13-week period as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 which consisted of a 12-week period.
Revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $36.2 million, representing a 14.9% increase compared to the previous year first quarter revenue of $31.5 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year first quarter was $22.0 million, an increase of 14.6% over the prior year’s first quarter.
International revenue for the first quarter of the current year was $14.2 million, a 15.8% increase over the previous year first quarter, and represents 39.2% of AstroNova’s first quarter’s revenue.
Current year first quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.6 million.
The increase is attributable to both segments, as T&M hardware revenue increased 8.5% and PI hardware revenue increased 6.1% compared to the first quarter of the prior year.
The current quarter increase in supplies revenue compared to the first quarter of the prior year is primarily attributable to increases in revenue of both digital color printer supplies and label and tag products within the Product Identification segment.
Current year first quarter gross profit was $14.2 million, a 17.6% increase compared to prior year first quarter gross profit of $12.1 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 39.4% reflects a 0.9 percentage point increase from prior year first quarter gross profit margin of 38.5%.
Operating expenses for the current quarter were $11.8 million, an 8.5% increase compared to prior year first quarter operating expenses of $10.8 million.
Specifically, selling and marketing expenses for the current quarter increased to $6.8 million compared to $6.5 million in the first quarter of the prior year due primarily to an increase in wages and commissions.
Current quarter general and administrative expenses were $3.0 million, a slight increase compared to $2.7 million in the prior year’s first quarter, as the current quarter increase in outside services was tempered by decreases in wage and bonus expense for the current quarter.
The R&D spending as a percentage of revenue for the current quarter is 5.5% compared to 5.4% for the same period of the prior year.
Other expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was $0.4 million compared to $0.3 million in the prior year first quarter.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.2 million.
Other expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 consists primarily of interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.1 million.
The Company reported net income of $1.7 million or $0.23 per diluted share for the first quarter of the current year.
On a comparable basis, net income for the prior year first quarter was $0.8 million or $0.12 per diluted share, which included after-tax income of $0.8 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into as a part of the fiscal 2018 Honeywell licenses and product line acquisition.
Return on revenue was 4.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to 2.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
21   



Table of Contents 



Segment Analysis  



The Company reports two segments: Product Identification and Test & Measurement (T&M) and evaluates segment performance based on the segment profit before corporate and financial administration expenses.
Summarized below are the Revenue and Segment Operating Profit for each reporting segment:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Product Identification  



Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 18.2% in the first quarter of the current year, with revenue of $23.6 million compared to $20.0 million in the same period of the prior year.
The current quarter increase in revenue is primarily attributable to the increase in supplies revenue, specifically, labels and tag supplies revenue and inkjet supply revenue, both experiencing double digit growth as compared to the same period in the prior year.
Also contributing to the increase in revenue for the current quarter was the 6.1% increase in hardware revenue as a result of the Company’s new five-color digital label printer, as well as an increase in sales of monochromatic printers.
Hardware revenue increases were slightly tempered by lower sales of the Company’s other digital color printers within the product group.
The current quarter also experienced growth in parts revenue compared to the same period in the prior year.
Product Identification’s current quarter segment operating profit was $2.9 million, reflecting a profit margin of 12.2%.
This compares to prior year’s first quarter segment profit of $1.7 million and related profit margin of 8.3%.
Test & Measurement—T&M  



Revenue from the T&M products was $12.6 million for the first quarter of the current fiscal year, representing a 9.2% increase compared to revenue of $11.5 million for the same period in the prior year.
The current quarter revenue increase is primarily due to the double digit growth in data acquisition hardware sales.
Also contributing to the growth in revenue for the first quarter is the increase in parts revenue related to the aerospace printer product line acquired from Honeywell in fiscal 2018.
Financial Condition and Liquidity  



Overview  



Generally, our primary sources of liquidity are cash generated from operating activities and borrowings.
22   



Table of Contents 



Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the first quarter were $5.8 million and we had $8.5 million available under our revolving credit facility.
Indebtedness  



In fiscal 2018, the Company and the Company’s wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS, entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
(the “Lender”), which, as amended, provides for a secured credit facility consisting of a term loan to ANI ApS in the principal amount of $9.2 million and a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million.
The Credit Agreement also provides for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility for the Company.
Both term loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
In connection with our entry into the Credit Agreement, ANI ApS entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect to the term loan.
Under this combined arrangement, payments of principal and interest with respect to approximately $8.9 million of the principal of the term loan will be made in Danish Krone, and interest on such principal amount will be payable at a fixed rate of 0.67% per annum for the entire term, subject only to potential changes based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
Additionally, the Company entered into a hedging agreement to manage the variable interest rate risk associated with its payments with respect to the $15.0 million term loan.
Under this combined arrangement, interest will be payable at a fixed rate of 2.04% per annum for the entire term, plus an incremental margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
23   



Table of Contents 



Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Krone.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or, in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum.
Outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line during fiscal 2020 bear interest at an annual rate of 5.75% and the Company has paid $19,000 of interest expense for revolving credit line borrowings for the quarter ended May 4, 2019.
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel ApS.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly owned German subsidiary, AstroNova GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company believes it is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.
Cash Flow  



The Company’s statements of cash flows for the three months ended May 4, 2019 and April 28, 2018 are included on page 7 of this report.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to cash used by operating activities of $1.6 million for the same period of the previous year.
The increase in net cash provided by operations for the current quarter is primarily due to the increase in net income and the decrease in cash used for working capital.
The combination of changes in accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased cash by $3.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to a decrease of $4.5 million for the same period in fiscal 2019.
The accounts receivable balance decreased to $22.0 million at the end of the first quarter compared to $23.5 million at year end and the collection cycle increased to 53 days compared to 49 days at year end.
The inventory balance was $32.0 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared to $30.2 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 131 days at the end of the current quarter from 120 days at the prior year end.
The decreased cash and investment position at May 4, 2019 primarily resulted from increased cash provided by in operations as discussed above, offset by principal payments of long-term debt of $1.6 million, principal payment of guaranteed royalty obligation of $0.4 million, dividends paid of $0.5 million and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $0.6 million.
The Company’s backlog increased 30% from year-end to $33.3 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies  



There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.
We constantly re-evaluate these significant factors and make adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
Except for the changes resulting from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard during the period, there have been no material changes to the application of critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019.
24   



Table of Contents 



Forward-Looking Statements  



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company made the following repurchases of its common stock:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a)  



Executives of the Company delivered 3,549 shares of the Company’s common stock toward the satisfaction of taxes due with respect to vesting of restricted shares.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.52 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
(b)  



An employee of the Company delivered 573 shares of the Company’s common stock to satisfy the exercise price for 800 stock options.
The shares delivered were valued at an average market value of $19.84 per share and are included with treasury stock in the consolidated balance sheet.
This transaction did not impact the number of shares authorized for repurchase under the Company’s current repurchase program.
Item 6.
Exhibits  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
26   



Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



27
