Item 1.
Financial Statements  



ASTRONOVA, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



(In thousands, Except Share Data)  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
3 



ASTRONOVA, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  



(In thousands, Except Per Share Data)  



(Unaudited)  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
4 



ASTRONOVA, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  



(In Thousands)  



(Unaudited)  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
5 



ASTRONOVA, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



(In Thousands)  



(Unaudited)  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See Notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
6 



ASTRONOVA, INC.  



NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited)  



(1) Overview  



Headquartered in West Warwick, Rhode Island, AstroNova, Inc. leverages its expertise in data visualization technologies to design, develop, manufacture and distribute a broad range of specialty printers and data acquisition and analysis systems.
AstroNova, Inc. products are employed around the world in a wide range of aerospace, apparel, automotive, avionics, chemical, computer peripherals, communications, distribution, food and beverage, general manufacturing, packaging and transportation applications.
The business consists of two segments, Product Identification, which includes specialty printing systems sold under the QuickLabel® and TrojanLabel® brand names, and Test & Measurement which includes test and measurement systems sold under the AstroNova® brand name.
Products sold under the QuickLabel and TrojanLabel brands are used in industrial and commercial product packaging, branding and labeling applications to digitally print custom labels and corresponding visual content in house.
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
In the aerospace market, the Company has a long history of using its data visualization technologies to provide high-resolution light-weight flight deck and cabin printers.
(2) Basis of Presentation  



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and reflect all adjustments consisting of normal recurring adjustments which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for a fair presentation of the results of the interim periods included herein.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
(3) Principles of Consolidation  



The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
7 



(4) Revenue Recognition  



On February 1, 2018 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Accounting Standards Codification “ASC” Topic 606),” which superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP.
The core principle of ASC Topic 606 is to recognize revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
ASC Topic 606 defines a five step process to recognize revenue and requires more judgment and estimates within the revenue recognition process than required under previous U.S. GAAP, which includes identifying contracts with customers, identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining and estimating the amount of any variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation and recognizing revenue when the entity satisfies each performance obligation.
We adopted this standard using the modified retrospective method and have applied the guidance to all contracts within the scope of ASC Topic 606 as of the February 1, 2018 adoption date.
Accordingly, the adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on our revenue recognition and there was no cumulative effective adjustment as of February 1, 2018 as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
Significant judgments primarily include the identification of performance obligation arrangements as well as the pattern of delivery for those services.
We derive revenue from the sale of (i) hardware including, digital color label printers and specialty OEM printing systems, portable data acquisition systems and airborne printers used in the flight deck and in the cabin of military, commercial and business aircraft, (ii) related supplies required in the operation of the hardware, (iii) repairs and maintenance of equipment and (iv) service agreements.
The transfer of control generally occurs at one point in time, upon shipment, when title and risk of loss pass to the customer.
Returns and customer credits are infrequent and are recorded as a reduction to revenue.
Many of the contracts entered into with customers are commonly comprised of a combination of equipment, supplies, installation and/or training services.
In order to be distinct, the product must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.
The majority of our hardware products contain embedded operating systems and data management software which is included in the purchase price of the equipment.
Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and are accounted for as a single performance obligation for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when ownership is transferred to the customer.
The delivery of installation and training services are not assessed to determine whether they are separate performance obligations, as the amounts are not material to the contract.
Shipping and handling activities that occur after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as fulfillment activities rather than performance obligations, as allowed under a practical expedient provided by ASC Topic 606.
These services are short in duration, typically less than one month, and total less than 9% of revenue for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
Revenue is recognized as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
We also provide service agreements on certain of our Product Identification equipment.
Service agreements are purchased separately from the equipment and provide for the right to obtain service and maintenance on the equipment for a period of typically one to two years.
Accordingly, revenue on these agreements is recognized over the term of the agreements.
The portion of service agreement contracts that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
8 



We generally provide warranties for our products.
The standard warranty period is typically 12 months for most hardware products except for airborne printers, which typically have warranties that extend for 4-5 years, consistent with industry practice.
On occasion, customers request a warranty period longer than our standard warranty.
In those instances, in which extended warranty services are separately quoted to the customer, an additional performance obligation is created, and the associated revenue is deferred and recognized as service revenue ratably over the term of the extended warranty period.
The portion of service contracts and extended warranty services agreements that are uncompleted at the end of any reporting period are included in deferred revenue.
Revenues disaggregated by primary geographic markets and major product type are as follows:  



Primary geographical markets:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Major product type:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Accounts Receivable  



Credit is extended based upon an evaluation of the customer’s financial condition.
Accounts receivable are stated at their estimated net realizable value.
Standard payment terms are typically 30 days after shipment, but vary by type and geographic location of our customers.
Contract Assets and Liabilities  



We normally do not have contract assets, which are primarily unbilled accounts receivable that are conditional on something other than the passage of time.
The slight increase in the deferred revenue at October 27, 2018 is primarily due to approximately $610,000 of revenue recognized during the period that was included in the deferred revenue balance at January 31, 2018, offset by cash payments received in advance of satisfying performance obligations.
These costs are deferred and amortized based on the forecasted number of units sold over the estimated benefit term.
There has been no change in the Company’s accounting for these contracts as a result of the adoption of ASC Topic 606.
The balance of these contract assets at January 31, 2018 was $832,000 and was reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company incurred an additional $150,000 in incremental direct costs which were deferred.
The amortization of incremental direct costs was $50,000 and $65,000 for the three and nine months periods ended October 27, 2018.
The balance of the deferred incremental direct contract costs net of accumulated amortization at October 27, 2018 is $916,000 and is reported in other assets in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
This amount is expected to be amortized over its estimated remaining period of benefit, which we currently estimate to be approximately 8 years.
These costs include sales commissions paid to the internal direct sales team as well as to third-party representatives and distributors.
Contractual agreements with each of these parties outline commission structures and rates to be paid.
Generally speaking, the contracts are all individual procurement decisions by the customers and do not include renewal provisions and as such the majority of the contracts have an economic life of significantly less than a year.
(5) Acquisitions  



On September 28, 2017, AstroNova, Inc. entered into an Asset Purchase and License Agreement (the “Honeywell Agreement”) with Honeywell International, Inc. to acquire an exclusive perpetual world-wide license to manufacture Honeywell’s narrow-format flight deck printers for two aircraft families along with certain inventory used in the manufacturing of the licensed printers.
The purchase price consisted of an initial upfront payment of $14.6 million in cash.
The Honeywell Agreement also provided for guaranteed minimum royalty payments of $15.0 million, to be paid to Honeywell over the next ten years, based on gross revenues from the sales of the printers, paper and repair services of the licensed products.
The royalty rates vary based on the year in which they are paid or earned and product sold or service provided, and range from single-digit to mid double-digit percentages of gross revenue.
This transaction was evaluated under Accounting Standard Update 2017-01, “Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business,” and was accounted for as an asset acquisition.
The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million was paid at the closing of this transaction using borrowings from the Company’s revolving credit facility under its amended Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
The minimum royalty payment obligation of $15.0 million was recorded at the present value of the annual minimum royalty payments using a present value factor of 2.8%, which is based on the estimated after tax cost of debt for similar companies.
At October 27, 2018, the current portion of the minimum royalty obligation to be paid over the next twelve months is $1.8 million and is reported as a current liability, and the remainder of $10.4 million is reported as a long-term liability on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet.
For the three and nine months ended October 27, 2018, the Company incurred $0.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively, in excess royalty expense, which is included in cost of revenue in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income for the period ended October 27, 2018.
In connection with the Honeywell Agreement, the Company also entered into a Transition Services Agreement (“TSA”) with Honeywell related to the transfer of the manufacturing and repair of the licensed printers from their current locations to AstroNova’s plant in West Warwick, Rhode Island.
During the current year, the Company paid $0.4 million to acquire an additional repair facility revenue stream in accordance with the terms of the TSA.
The additional $0.4 million TSA obligation payment was included as part of the Honeywell Agreement purchase price and recorded as an increase to the related intangible asset.
Under the terms of the TSA, the Company is required to pay for certain expenses incurred by Honeywell during the period in which product manufacturing is transferred to the Company’s facilities.
Additionally, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimates for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased operating income by $0.4 million ($0.3 million net of tax or $0.05 per diluted share).
10 



Transaction costs incurred for this acquisition were $0.3 million and were included as part of the purchase price.
The assets acquired in connection with the acquisition were recorded by the Company at their estimated relative fair values as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The purchase price, including the initial payment, the minimum royalty payment obligation, transaction costs, and the subsequent TSA $0.4 million obligation payment, were allocated based on the relative fair value of the assets acquired.
The fair value of the intangible assets acquired was estimated by applying the income approach.
These fair value measurements are based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market and therefore represent a Level 3 measurement as defined in ASC 820, “Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure.” Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the intangibles include (1) the remaining life of the intangibles based on the term of the Honeywell Asset Purchase and License Agreement of 10 years, (2) a range of annual earnings projections from $3.9 million – $5.4 million and (3) the Company’s internal rate of return of 21.0%.
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



TrojanLabel  



On February 1, 2017, our wholly-owned Danish subsidiary, ANI ApS, completed the acquisition of the issued and outstanding equity interests of TrojanLabel ApS (TrojanLabel).
The purchase price of this acquisition was 62.9 million Danish Krone (approximately $9.1 million), net of cash acquired of 976,000 Danish Krone (approximately $0.1 million), of which 6.4 million Danish Krone (approximately $0.9 million) was placed in escrow to secure certain post-closing working capital adjustments and indemnification obligations of the sellers.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company settled the post-closing adjustments with TrojanLabel and recovered approximately 891,000 Danish Krone (approximately $145,000) of the amount held in escrow account, which was recognized as an adjustment to the allowance account for TrojanLabel receivables.
The remaining escrow balance was retained by TrojanLabel.
(6) Net Income Per Common Share  



Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares and, if dilutive, common equivalent shares, determined using the treasury stock method for stock options, restricted stock awards and restricted stock units outstanding during the period.
A reconciliation of the shares used in calculating basic and diluted net income per share is as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



11 



For the three and nine months ended October 27, 2018, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 228,600 and 333,175, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended October 28, 2017, the diluted per share amounts do not reflect common equivalent shares outstanding of 609,934 and 612,248, respectively.
These outstanding common equivalent shares were not included due to their anti-dilutive effect.
Restricted stock units which vest based upon achievement of performance targets are excluded from the diluted shares outstanding unless the performance targets have been met as of the end of the reporting period, regardless of whether such performance targets are probable of achievement as of the end of the measurement period.
(7) Intangible Assets  



Intangible assets are as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*  



Includes additional $0.4 million related to the payment in fiscal 2019 in accordance with the terms of the TSA.
There were no impairments to intangible assets during the periods ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017.
With respect to the acquired intangibles included in the table above, amortization expense of $1,039,000 and $508,000 related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the three months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
Amortization expense of $3,085,000 and $1,111,000 related to the above acquired intangibles has been included in the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
Estimated amortization expense for the next five fiscal years is as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(8) Share-Based Compensation  



At the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders held on June 4, 2018, the Company’s shareholders approved the AstroNova, Inc. 2018 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2018 Plan”).
Following the approval of the 2018 Plan at the Company’s annual meeting of shareholders, the Company ceased granting new equity awards pursuant to the 2015 Plan.
The Company has a Non-Employee Director Annual Compensation Program (the “Program”) under which each non-employee director receives an automatic grant of restricted stock awards (“RSAs”) on the first business day of each fiscal quarter.
Under the Program, the number of whole shares to be granted each quarter is equal to 25% of the number calculated by dividing the director  



12 



compensation amount by the fair market value of the Company’s stock on such day.
The director annual compensation amount was $65,000 in fiscal year 2018 and is $75,000 in fiscal year 2019.
In addition, the Chairman of the Board receives RSAs with an aggregate value of $6,000, and the Chairs of the Audit and Compensation Committees each receive RSAs with an aggregate value of $4,000, also issued in quarterly installments and calculated in the same manner as the directors’ RSA grants.
RSAs granted prior to March 30, 2017 became fully vested on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
RSAs granted subsequent to March 30, 2017 become vested three months after the date of grant.
A total of 5,300 and 7,314 shares were awarded to the non-employee directors as compensation under the Program in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In April 2013 (fiscal year 2014), the Company granted options and RSUs to officers (“2014 RSUs”).
The 2014 RSUs vested as follows: twenty-five percent vested on the third anniversary of the grant date, fifty percent vested upon the Company achieving its cumulative budgeted net revenue target for fiscal years 2014 through 2016 (the “Measurement Period”), and twenty-five percent vested upon the Company achieving a target average annual ORONA (operating income return on net assets as calculated under the Domestic Management Bonus Plan) for the Measurement Period.
The grantee may not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of more than fifty percent of the common stock issued upon vesting of the 2014 RSUs until the first anniversary of the vesting date.
In April 2016, 9,300 of the 2014 RSUs vested, as the Company achieved the targeted average annual ORONA, as defined in the plan, for the Measurement Period and another 9,300 vested as a result of the third year anniversary date of the grant.
Additionally, on February 1, 2014, the Company accelerated the vesting of 4,166 of the 2014 RSUs held by Everett Pizzuti in connection with his retirement.
In March 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted 50,000 options and 537 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to an Equity Incentive Award Agreement dated as of November 24, 2014 (“CEO Equity Incentive Agreement”), and 35,000 options to other key employees.
In May 2015 (fiscal year 2016), the Company granted an aggregate of 80,000 time-based and 155,000 performance-based RSUs (“2016 RSUs”) to certain officers of the Company.
The time-based 2016 RSUs vest in four equal annual installments commencing on the first anniversary of the grant date.
The performance-based 2016 RSUs vest over three years based upon the increase in revenue, if any, achieved each fiscal year relative to a three-year revenue increase goal.
Performance-based 2016 RSUs that are earned based on organic revenue growth are fully vested when earned, while those earned based on revenue growth via acquisitions vest annually over a three-year period following the fiscal year in which the revenue growth occurs.
Any performance-based 2016 RSUs that were not earned at the end of fiscal 2018 were forfeited.
The expense for such shares was recognized in the fiscal year in which the results were achieved, however, the shares were not fully earned until approved by the Compensation Committee in the first quarter of the following fiscal year.
Based upon revenue in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, 33,638, 9,025 and 15,810 shares of the performance based RSUs were earned in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In March 2016 (fiscal year 2017), the Company granted 50,000 options and 4,030 RSAs to its Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the CEO Equity Incentive Agreement.
In May 2016 (fiscal year 2017) the Company granted 37,000 options to certain key employees.
On August 1, 2016 (fiscal year 2017) the Company granted 5,000 options to its Chief Financial Officer.
In March 2017 (fiscal year 2018), the Company granted 50,000 options to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to the CEO Equity Incentive Agreement.
In February and April 2017 the Company granted 52,189 options to certain other key employees.
In December 2017, upon election to the Board, the Company granted 5,000 non-qualified options and 675 RSUs to a Board member.
In January 2018, the Company granted 50,000 non-qualified options and 15,000 RSUs to the newly appointed Chief Financial Officer.
In April 2018 (fiscal year 2019), the Company granted 5,000 non-qualified options and 341 RSUs to a newly elected member of the Board of Directors.
In May 2018, the Company granted 40,000 options to certain key employees.
In June 2018, the Company granted an aggregate of 25,000 non-qualified options to the members of the Board of Directors.
Also in June 2018, the Company granted an aggregate of 126,000 options, 44,275 time-based RSUs and 38,000 performance-based RSUs to certain officers of the Company, all of which vest over three years.
13 



Share-based compensation expense was recognized as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Stock Options  



The fair value of stock options granted during the nine months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017 was estimated using the following assumptions:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



There were no options granted during the three month period ended October 27, 2018.
The weighted average fair value per share for options granted was $7.41 during the nine month period ended October 27, 2018, compared to $4.46 during the nine month period ended October 28, 2017.
Aggregated information regarding stock options granted under the Plans for the nine months ended October 27, 2018, is summarized below:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Set forth below is a summary of options outstanding at October 27, 2018:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of October 27, 2018, there was approximately $1.7 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.5 years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan  



AstroNova has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan allowing eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock at a 15% discount from fair value on the first or last day of an offering period, whichever is less.
A total of 247,500 shares were reserved for issuance under this plan.
During the nine months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017, there were 3,912 and 4,657 shares, respectively, purchased under this plan.
As of October 27, 2018, 35,294 shares remain available.
The components of inventories are as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(10) Income Taxes  



The Company’s effective tax rates for the period are as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company determines its estimated annual effective tax rate at the end of each interim period based on full-year forecasted pre-tax income and facts known at that time.
The tax effect of significant unusual items is reflected in the period in which they occur.
During the three months ended October 27, 2018, the Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $407,000.
During the three months ended October 28, 2017, the Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $201,000.
During the nine months ended October 27, 2018, the Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $1,046,000.
During the nine months ended October 28, 2017, the Company recognized an income tax expense of approximately $579,000.
As of October 27, 2018, the Company’s cumulative unrecognized tax benefits totaled $626,000 compared to $665,000 as of January 31, 2018.
No adjustments have been raised at this time.
We were capable of reasonably estimating the one-time deemed repatriation tax and recorded a provisional expense of $0.1 million at January 31, 2018.
ASU 2018-05 allows a company to record a provisional amount when it does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the changes in the Tax Reform Act.
The measurement period ends when the company has obtained, prepared and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting, but cannot extend beyond one year from the date of enactment of the Tax Reform Act.
During the nine months ended October 27, 2018, there were no changes made to the provisional amounts recognized in fiscal 2018.
We will complete our analysis over a one-year measurement period ending December 22, 2018, and any adjustments during this measurement period will be included in net earnings from continuing operations as an adjustment to income tax expense in the reporting period when such adjustments are determined.
16 



(11) Credit Agreement  



On February 28, 2017, the Company and its wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS (together, the “Parties”), entered into a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
(the “Lender”).
The Credit Agreement provided for a term loan to ANI ApS in the principal amount of $9.2 million.
The Credit Agreement also provided for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility available to the Company for general corporate purposes.
In connection with the Honeywell Purchase and License Agreement, on September 28, 2017, the Parties entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.
On November 30, 2017, the Parties entered into a Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
The proceeds from the term loan were used to repay the entire $14.6 million principal balance of the revolving loans outstanding under the revolving credit facility.
The principal amount of the revolving credit facility which had been temporarily increased to $15.0 million was reduced to $10.0 million effective upon the closing of the Second Amendment and the maturity date for the revolving credit facility was extended to November 30, 2022.
On April 17, 2018, the Parties entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The Third Amendment provides that no “Immaterial Subsidiary” will be required to become a guarantor or securing party under (unless requested by the Lender during default) or have its equity pledged pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the Credit Agreement, AstroNova and ANI ApS entered into certain hedging arrangements with the Lender to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect of the term loans.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Krone.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum.
The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.
The financial covenants consist of a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio.
The Credit Agreement contains limitations, in each case subject to various exceptions and thresholds, on the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to incur future indebtedness, to place liens on assets, to conduct mergers or acquisitions, to sell assets, to alter their capital structure, to make investments and loans, to change the nature of their business, and to prepay subordinated indebtedness.
The Credit Agreement permits the Company to pay cash dividends on and repurchase shares of its common stock, subject to certain limitations.
The Company believes it is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement as of October 27, 2018.
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default, which include, among other events, the following: failure to pay when due any principal, interest or other amounts in respect of the loans, breach of any of the Company’s covenants or representations under the loan documents, default under any other of the Company’s or its subsidiaries’ significant indebtedness agreements, a bankruptcy, insolvency or similar event with respect to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, a significant unsatisfied judgment against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or a change of control of the Company.
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS  



17 



term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly-owned German subsidiary Astro-Med GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
In the second quarter of the current year, $3.0 million was drawn on the revolving credit facility, of which $1.5 million was repaid and $1.5 million remains outstanding as of October 27, 2018.
The outstanding balance bears interest at a weighted average annual rate of 5.5% and $38,000 of interest has been accrued on this obligation and included in other expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated income statement for the three and nine months ended October 27, 2018.
As of October 27, 2018, there is $8.5 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility.
(12) Debt  



Long-term debt in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets is as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The schedule of required principal payments remaining during the next five years on long-term debt outstanding as of October 27, 2018 is as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(13) Derivative Financial Instruments and Risk Management  



The Company has entered into a cross-currency interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange risk associated with the floating-rate foreign currency-denominated term loan borrowing by our Danish Subsidiary and an interest rate swap to manage the interest rate risk associated with the variable rate $15.0 million term loan borrowing by the Company.
In accordance with the guidance in ASC 815 “Derivatives and Hedging,” both swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of floating-rate borrowings.
The cross-currency interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk by converting approximately $8.9 million of the Company’s floating-rate debt denominated in U.S.
Dollars on our Danish subsidiary’s books to a fixed-rate debt denominated in Danish Krone for the term of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate and foreign currency exchange rate changes on future interest expense and principal repayments.
Dollars in exchange for fixed-rate interest payments in Danish Krone, as well as exchanges of principal at the inception spot rate, over the life of the term loan.
As of October 27, 2018, the total notional amount of the Company’s cross-currency interest rate swap was $6.7 million and is included in other long term liabilities in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet at its fair value amount of $0.5 million.
The interest rate swap agreement utilized by the Company on the $15.0 million term loan effectively modifies the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk by converting the Company’s floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt over the life of the loan, thus reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense.
Dollars in exchange for fixed rate payments in U.S. dollars over the life of the term loan.
As of October 27, 2018, the total notional amount of  



18 



the Company’s interest rate swap was $12.0 million and is included in other assets in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance at its fair value amount of $0.2 million.
19 



(15) Segment Information  



AstroNova reports two segments: Product Identification and Test & Measurement (T&M).
The Company evaluates segment performance based on the segment profit before corporate expenses.
Summarized below are the Revenue and Segment Operating Profit for each reporting segment:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(16) Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements  



Share-Based Compensation  



In June 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2018-07 “Compensation—Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting.” ASU 2018-07 reduces the cost and complexity and improves financial reporting by expanding the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions to nonemployees.
ASU 2018-07 is effective for public companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years with early adoption permitted.
The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance effective beginning in the second quarter of the current year.
This ASU is effective immediately as new information is available to adjust provisional amounts that were previously recorded.
The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and expects the accounting for the tax effects of the Tax Act to be completed during the measurement period.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted.
The Company early adopted this amendment in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and reclassified $14,000 from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings.
20 



Revenue Recognition  



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” ASU 2014-09 completes the joint effort by the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board to improve financial reporting by creating common revenue recognition guidance for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
ASU 2014-09 applies to all companies that enter into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services.
Under this guidance, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company adopted this guidance effective February 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
Refer to Note 4, “Revenue Recognition” for further details.
Derivatives and Hedging  



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging: Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities.” The objective of this new guidance is to improve the financial reporting of hedging relationships by, among other things, eliminating the requirement to separately measure and record hedge ineffectiveness.
ASU 2017-12 is effective for public companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years with early adoption permitted.
We adopted the provisions of this guidance effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Share-Based Compensation  



In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09 “Stock Compensation: Scope of Modification Accounting.” ASU 2017-09 provides guidance on the types of changes to the terms or conditions of share-based payment awards to which an entity would be required to apply modification accounting under ASC 718.
The Company adopted this guidance effective February 1, 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Statement of Cash Flows  



In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, “Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments (Topic 230).” ASU 2016-15 addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice for certain cash receipts and cash payments.
The Company adopted this guidance affective February 1, 2018.
Recent Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted  



Internal-Use Software 



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other—Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract.” ASU 2018-15 reduces complexity for the accounting for costs of implementing a cloud computing service arrangement and aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal use software license).
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019 (Q1 fiscal 2021 for AstroNova), with early adoption permitted.
Implementation should be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption.
Fair Value Measurement 



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying or adding certain disclosures.
This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 including interim periods within those fiscal years (Q1 fiscal 2021 for AstroNova), with early adoption permitted.
All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date.
21 



Leases  



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” ASU 2016-02 supersedes current guidance related to accounting for leases and is intended to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring lessees to recognize assets and liabilities in the balance sheet for operating leases with lease terms greater than twelve months.
The update also requires improved disclosures to help users of financial statements better understand the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, “Leases (Topic 842) Targeted Improvements,” which amends ASU 2016-02 to provide an additional (and optional) transition method to adopt the new lease standard.
These ASUs will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years (Q1 fiscal 2020 for AstroNova), with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this new guidance and expects this guidance to result in recognizing leased assets and lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets.
No other new accounting pronouncements, issued or effective during the first nine months of the current year, have had or are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
(17) Fair Value  



Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  



Fair value is applied to our financial assets and liabilities including money market funds, available for sale securities, derivative instruments and a contingent consideration liability relating to an earnout payment on future TrojanLabel operating results.
The following tables provide a summary of the financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as of October 27, 2018 and January 31, 2018:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For our money market funds and municipal obligations, we utilize the market approach to measure fair value.
The market approach is based on using quoted prices for identical or similar assets.
We also use the market approach to measure fair value of our derivative instruments.
Derivative instruments were measured at fair value using readily observable market inputs, such as quotations on interest rates and foreign exchange rates, and is classified as Level 2 because they are an over-the-counter contract with a bank counterparty that is not traded in an active market.
The fair value of the earnout liability incurred in connection with the Company’s acquisition of TrojanLabel was determined using the option approach methodology which includes using significant inputs that are not observable in the market and therefore classified as Level 3.
Key assumptions in estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration liability included (1) the estimated earnout targets over the next seven years of $0.5 million-$1.4 million, (2) the probability of success (achievement of the various contingent events) from 0.0%-0.9% and (3) a risk-adjusted discount rate of approximately 2.68%-4.9% used to adjust the probability-weighted earnout payments to their present value.
There was no change in the fair value of the earnout liability for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
22 



Assets and Liabilities Not Recorded at Fair Value  



As of October 27, 2018 and January 31, 2018, the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt not reflected in the financial statements at fair value, is reflected in the table below:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using current interest rates at which similar borrowings with the same maturities would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and is classified as Level 3.
23 



Item 2.
The Company organizes its structure around a core set of competencies, including research and development, manufacturing, service, marketing and distribution.
It markets and sells its products and services through the following two segments:  



•  



Product Identification—offers product identification and digital label printer hardware, software, servicing contracts, parts and supplies.
Supplies includes the media (substrate) and ink, toner, and thermal transfer ribbon used with the Company’s printers and the various parts used to maintain the printers.
•  



Test and Measurement (T&M)—offers a suite of products and services that acquire data from local and networked data streams and sensors as well as wired and wireless networks.
The recorded data is processed and analyzed and then stored and presented in various visual output formats.
The T&M segment also includes a line of aerospace printers that are used to print hard copies of data required for the safe and efficient operation of aircraft, including navigation maps, arrival and departure procedures, flight itineraries, weather maps, performance data, passenger data, and various air traffic control data.
Aerospace products also include Ethernet switches which are used in military aircraft and vehicles to connect multiple computers or Ethernet devises.
On September 28, 2017, AstroNova entered into an Asset Purchase and License Agreement with Honeywell International, Inc. (the “Honeywell Agreement”) pursuant to which it acquired the exclusive perpetual world-wide license to manufacture Honeywell’s narrow format flight deck printers for the Boeing 737 and Airbus 320 aircraft.
Revenue from the sales of these printers is reported as part of our Test & Measurement segment beginning in the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Refer to Note 5, “Acquisitions,” in the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.
Results of Operations  



Three Months Ended October 27, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended October 28, 2017  



Revenue by segment and current quarter percentage change over prior year for the three months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017 were:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $34.2 million, representing an 18.9% increase compared to the previous year third quarter revenue of $28.8 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the current year third quarter was $21.5 million, an increase of 18.9% over the prior year’s third quarter.
International revenue for the third quarter of the current year was $12.7 million, also an 18.9% increase over the previous year’s third quarter and represents 37% of AstroNova’s third quarter revenue.
Current year third quarter international revenue includes an unfavorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.2 million.
Hardware revenue in the current quarter was $13.1 million, a 39.4% increase compared to the prior year’s third quarter revenue of $9.4 million.
The increase was primarily due to Test & Measurement hardware sales of aerospace printers related to the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year.
24 



Supplies revenue in the current quarter was $18.1 million, a 9.0% increase over the prior year’s third quarter supplies revenue of $16.6 million.
Service and other revenues of $3.0 million in the current quarter increased 7.1% from prior year third quarter service and other revenues of $2.8 million, primarily due to an increase in customer demand for repair services in the Test & Measurement segment during the third quarter of the current year due to a larger installed customer base as a result of the Honeywell Agreement.
Current year third quarter gross profit was $13.9 million, a 17.9% increase compared to prior year third quarter gross profit of $11.8 million.
The Company’s current quarter gross profit margin of 40.7% reflects a 0.3 percentage point decrease from the prior year third quarter gross profit margin of 41.0%.
G&A expenses increased in the third quarter to $2.8 million compared to $2.6 million in the prior year third quarter.
The increase is primarily due to an increase in employee benefits, slightly offset by a decrease in professional fees in the third quarter of the current year.
R&D expenses were $2.1 million in the current quarter, compared to $2.0 million in the prior year third quarter with the increase attributable primarily to increased employee benefits.
The R&D spending as a percentage of revenue for the current quarter is 6.2% compared to 7.1% for the same period of the prior year.
Other expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $0.5 million compared to $12 thousand in the prior year third quarter.
Current quarter other expense includes interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.3 million.
Other income for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 includes $0.1 million of interest expense on debt and $0.2 million of foreign exchange loss, offset by $0.3 million of investment income and income received from the settlement of a legal matter related to patent infringement.
The Company reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the third quarter of the current year, consistent with net income for the prior year third quarter of $1.4 million or $0.21 per diluted share.
Net income was 4.1% of revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to 4.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Nine Months Ended October 27, 2018 vs. Nine Months Ended October 28, 2017  



Revenue by product group and current quarter percentage change over prior year for the nine months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017 were:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $99.5 million, representing a 23.3% increase compared to the previous year’s first nine months of revenue of $80.7 million.
Revenue through domestic channels for the first nine months of the current year was $60.8 million, an increase of 19.2% from the prior year.
International revenue for the first nine months of the current year was $38.7 million, a 30.3% increase from the previous year.
The current year’s first nine months international revenue included a favorable foreign exchange rate impact of $0.9 million.
25 



Hardware revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $38.0 million, a 50.2% increase compared to the prior year’s first nine months of revenue of $25.3 million primarily due to the increase in Test & Measurement hardware sales of aerospace printers related to the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year.
Also contributing to the increase in hardware sales for the current year was growth in sales of both ink jet and Trojan Label printers.
Supplies revenue in the first nine months of the current year was $52.7 million, representing a 10.4% increase over the prior year’s first nine months revenue of $47.7 million.
The current year increase in supplies revenue is related primarily to increases in digital color printer supplies product revenue, and label and tag revenue in the Product Identification segment.
Service and other revenues were $8.8 million in the first nine months of the current year, a 14.7% increase compared to the prior year’s first nine months service and other revenues of $7.7 million, primarily due to an increase in demand for parts and repair services in the Test & Measurement segment related to the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year.
Gross profit for the first nine months of the current year was $39.4 million, a 25.7% increase from prior year’s first nine months gross profit of $31.4 million.
The Company’s current year gross profit margin of 39.6% reflects an increase from the prior year’s first nine months gross profit margin of 38.9%.
Selling and marketing expenses for the current year of $19.5 million increased 22.1% compared to the previous year’s first nine months due primarily to the amortization of the Company’s identifiable intangibles purchased in connection with the Honeywell Agreement, as well as increases in employee compensation.
G&A expenses increased to $8.3 million in the first nine months of the current year compared to prior year’s first nine months G&A expenses of $6.8 million, primarily due to an increase in employee compensation.
R&D spending in the first nine months of the current year was $5.8 million, a 9.4% increase compared to prior year’s first nine months spending of $5.3 million.
Current year spending on R&D represents 5.8% of revenue compared to the prior year’s first nine months level of 6.6%.
Other expense during the first nine months of the current year was $1.3 million compared to $45 thousand in the first nine months of the previous year.
Other expense for fiscal 2018 included interest expense on debt of $0.2 million and foreign exchange loss of $0.2 million, partially offset by $0.3 million of investment and other income received from the settlement of a legal matter related to patent infringement.
The Company recognized $1.0 million of income tax expense for the first nine months of the current fiscal year.
The prior year’s first nine months income tax expense was $0.6 million.
The Company reported net income of $3.4 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, for the first nine months of the current year, which included $0.8 million of after-tax income, or $0.12 per diluted share, as a result of a change in accounting estimates in the first quarter for product cost and operating expenses related to a transition services agreement entered into with Honeywell in connection with the Honeywell Agreement.
In addition, during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, a change in accounting estimate for revenue subject to customer rebates under the Honeywell Agreement increased net income by $0.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share.
In the prior year’s first nine months, the Company recognized net income of $2.7 million, or $0.38 per diluted share.
Net income was 3.4% of revenue for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to 3.3% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
26 



Segment Analysis  



The Company reports two segments: Product Identification and Test & Measurement (T&M) and evaluates segment performance based on the segment profit before corporate and financial administration expenses.
Summarized below are the Revenue and Segment Operating Profit for each reporting segment:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Product Identification  



Revenue from the Product Identification segment increased 6.0% in the third quarter of the current year, with revenue of $21.7 million compared to $20.5 million in the same period of the prior year.
The current year third quarter also received a solid contribution from the supplies product line revenue, which increased 5.6% from the same period in the prior year.
The current quarter increase in supplies revenue is due to the continued increase in demand for label and tag supplies, which have increased 9.7% in the current year third quarter compared to the same period in the prior year.
Product Identification current quarter segment operating profit was $2.0 million, reflecting a profit margin of 9.3%.
This compares to the prior year’s third quarter segment profit of $2.7 million and related profit margin of 13.0%.
Revenues from the Product Identification segment increased 5.8% to $63.4 million in the first nine months of the current year from $59.9 million in the same period of the prior year, attributable to an increase in supplies revenue of 5.9% due to increased demand for digital color printer supplies products, as well as label and tag products.
Product Identification current year segment operating profit of $5.8 million and profit margin of 9.2% declined from the prior year segment operating profit of $7.8 million and related profit margin of 12.9%.
Test & Measurement—T&M  



Revenue from the T&M segment was $12.5 million for the third quarter of the current fiscal year, representing a 50.7% increase compared to revenue of $8.3 million for the same period in the prior year.
The increase is due primarily to the increase in revenue from aerospace printer hardware and supplies as a result of the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year as well as a contribution from increased sales of data acquisition products for the current year.
Revenue from the T&M segment was $36.1 million for the first nine months of the current fiscal year, a 73.8% increase compared to sales of $20.8 million for the same period in the prior year.
The increase is due primarily to the increase in revenue from aerospace printer hardware and supplies as a result of the Honeywell Agreement entered into at the end of the third quarter of the prior year as well as a contribution from increased sales of data acquisition products for the current year.
27 



Financial Condition and Liquidity  



Overview  



Generally, our primary source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we drew $3.0 million on our revolving credit facility, of which $1.5 million was repaid and $1.5 million remains outstanding as of October 27, 2018.
Our cash and cash equivalents at the end of the third quarter were $7.8 million and we have $8.5 million remaining available under our revolving credit facility.
Indebtedness  



On February 28, 2017, the Company and its wholly owned Danish subsidiaries, ANI ApS and TrojanLabel ApS (together, the “Parties”), entered into a Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A.
(the “Lender”).
The Credit Agreement provided for a term loan to ANI ApS in the principal amount of $9.2 million.
The Credit Agreement also provided for a $10.0 million revolving credit facility available to the Company for general corporate purposes.
In connection with the Honeywell Purchase and License Agreement, on September 28, 2017, the Parties entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The First Amendment amended the existing Credit Agreement to permit the Honeywell Agreement and temporarily increased the amount available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility from $10.0 million to $15.0 million.
The initial upfront payment of $14.6 million for the Honeywell Agreement was paid using borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility.
On November 30, 2017, the Parties entered into a Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The Second Amendment provided for a term loan to the Company in the principal amount of $15.0 million, in addition to the revolving credit facility for the Company and the term loan previously borrowed by ANI ApS at the original closing under the Credit Agreement.
The proceeds from the term loan were used to repay the entire $14.6 million principal balance of the revolving loans outstanding under the revolving credit facility.
The principal amount of the revolving credit facility which had been temporarily increased to $15.0 million was reduced to $10.0 million effective upon closing of the Second Amendment and the maturity date was extended to November 30, 2022.
On April 17, 2018, the Parties entered into a Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement with the Lender.
The Third Amendment provides that no “Immaterial Subsidiary” will be required to become a guarantor or securing party under (unless requested by the Lender during default) or have its equity pledged pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment defines “Immaterial Subsidiary” as any subsidiary of the Company with (a) consolidated total assets that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and (b) revenues that do not exceed 5.0% of the consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter; provided that Immaterial Subsidiaries shall not account for, in the aggregate, more than 10% the of consolidated total assets or consolidated revenues of the Company and its subsidiaries.
In connection with the Credit Agreement, AstroNova and ANI ApS entered into certain hedging arrangements with the Lender to manage the variable interest rate risk and currency risk associated with its payments in respect of the term loans.
Revolving credit loans may be borrowed, at the Company’s option, in U.S.
Dollars or, subject to certain conditions, Euros, British Pounds, Canadian Dollars or Danish Krone.
Amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Company’s option, either (a) the LIBOR rate (or in the case of revolving credit loans denominated in a currency other than U.S.
Dollars, the applicable quoted rate), plus a margin that varies within a range of 1.0% to 1.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio, or (b) a fluctuating reference rate equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds’ rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America’s publicly announced prime rate or (iii) the LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, plus a margin that varies within a range of 0.0% to 0.5% based on the Company’s consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the revolving credit facility at the rate of 0.25% per annum.
Outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit line during fiscal 2019 bear interest at an annual rate of 5.5% and the Company has accrued $38 thousand on the outstanding obligation for the nine months ended October 27, 2018.
The obligations of ANI ApS in respect of the $9.2 million term loan are guaranteed by the Company and TrojanLabel.
The Company’s obligations in respect of the $15.0 million term loan, revolving credit facility and its guarantee in respect of the ANI ApS term loan are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company (including a pledge of a portion of the equity interests held by the Company in ANI ApS and the Company’s wholly-owned German subsidiary Astro-Med GmbH), subject to certain exceptions.
28 



The Parties must comply with various customary financial and non-financial covenants under the Credit Agreement.
The Lender is entitled to accelerate repayment of the loans and to terminate its revolving credit commitment under the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of any of various customary events of default.
As of October 27, 2018, we believe the Company is in compliance with all of the covenants in the Credit Agreement.
Cash Flow  



The Company’s statements of cash flows for the nine months ended October 27, 2018 and October 28, 2017 are included on page 6 of this report.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to $2.0 million for the same period of the previous year.
The decrease in net cash provided by operations for the first nine months of the current year is primarily due to payments of prior quarters’ accrued expenses to Honeywell under the TSA agreement and the increase in inventory to support the transition of the production of printers to the West Warwick facility in accordance with the Honeywell TSA.
The combination of these factors on working capital decreased cash by $7.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to a decrease of $2.4 million for the same period in fiscal 2018.
The current year decrease in cash provided by operations was slightly offset by an increase in non-cash amortization related to the Honeywell acquisition.
The accounts receivable balance was $21.7 million at the end of the third quarter compared to $22.4 million at year end and the collection cycle decreased to 50 days compared to 55 days at year end.
The inventory balance increased to $28.3 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $27.6 million at year end and inventory days on hand increased to 126 days at the end of the current quarter from 124 days at the prior year end.
The decreased cash and investment position at October 27, 2018 as compared to year end, primarily resulted from increased cash used in operations as discussed above, principal payments of long-term debt of $4.0 million, dividends paid of $1.4 million and cash used to acquire property, plant and equipment of $1.9 million.
The Company’s backlog increased 15.1% from year-end to $24.5 million at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies  



There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018, other than those which occur in the ordinary course of business.
29 



Item 3.
Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  



Our management has evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act).
30 



PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION  



Item 1.
Item 1A.
There have been no material updates to the risk factors previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company made the following repurchases of its common stock:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



31 



Item 6.
Exhibits  



 3A  



Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company and all amendments thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3A to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2016).
3B  



By-laws of the Company as amended to date (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3B to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008 (File no.
000-13200)).
31.1  



Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   



 31.2  



Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   



 32.1  



Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   



 32.2  



Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   



 101  



The following materials from Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 27, 2018, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, (iii) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Filed electronically herein.
32 



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



33
