Item 2.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made.
The Company has no obligation or intent to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Overview 



We are a global company that designs, manufactures and sells precision and specialty controlled motion components and systems used in a broad range of industries.
We are headquartered in Amherst, NY, and have operations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia.
We are known worldwide for our expertise in electro-magnetic, mechanical and electronic motion technology.
We sell component and integrated controlled motion solutions to end customers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) through our own direct sales force and authorized manufacturers’ representatives and distributors.
Our products include brush and brushless DC motors, brushless servo and torque motors, coreless DC motors, integrated brushless motor-drives, gearmotors, gearing, modular digital servo drives, motion controllers, incremental and absolute optical encoders, active and passive filters for power quality and harmonic issues, and other controlled motion-related products.
Financial overview 



Acquisitive and organic growth across all the Company’s served markets led to leveraging of costs and expansion of margins.
Excluding the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange (“FX”) of $3,140, first quarter revenue was $97,036, up 26.7%.
Revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts is a non-gaap measurement.
Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of revenue to revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts.
We remain focused on executing our strategy for growth while streamlining the organization and emphasizing continuous improvement in quality, delivery, cost and innovation as we drive the One Allied approach and expand our value proposition for our customers.
Solid strides continue to be made with our multi-product, fully integrated solutions that are leading to increased business.
Also, we continue to build a pipeline of exciting market-based application opportunities.
Sales cycles 



20 



Table of Contents 



are long and the time from being selected for the solution development to full rate production can be longer, yet we believe we continue to build a scalable foundation which can deliver strong returns on those investments.
Operating Results 



Quarter ended March 31, 2019 compared to quarter ended March 31, 2018 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



NET INCOME: Net income increased during the first quarter 2019 compared to the first quarter 2018 reflecting a significant increase in revenues partially offset by increased selling and general and administrative costs to support growth.
EBITDA AND ADJUSTED EBITDA: EBITDA was $11,004 for the first quarter of 2019 compared to $9,096 for the same quarter last year.
Adjusted EBITDA was $11,731 and $9,743 for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP measurements.
EBITDA consists of income before interest expense, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization.
Adjusted EBITDA also excludes stock compensation expense and certain other items.
Refer to information included in “Non - GAAP Measures” below for a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.
21 



Table of Contents 



Sales to U.S. customers were 54% of total sales for the first quarter 2019 compared with 53% for the same period last year, with the balance of sales to customers primarily in Europe, Canada and Asia.
ORDER BOOKINGS AND BACKLOG: The increase in bookings in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 is largely due to organic growth across all of the major markets served by the company.
The acquisition of TCI in late 2018 contributes to the increased bookings in 2019.
The increase in backlog as of March 31, 2019, compared to at March 31, 2018 was attributable to the same factors.
The first event relates to an increase in pricing from a supplier who is discontinuing operations and subsequently increased their prices for any new orders through the first half of 2019.
The second item was the timing of investment into tooling and prototype samples related to new Vehicle market programs.
Both impacts are expected to moderate over the coming quarters.
SELLING EXPENSES: Selling expenses increased in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period of 2018.
This was attributable to higher commissioned sales and the additional selling organizations associated with the Maval OE Steering and TCI acquisitions.
Selling expenses as a percentage of revenues were 4.4% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 3.5% for the same period last year.
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: General and administrative expenses increased by 20% in the first quarter 2019 from the first quarter 2018 largely due to the acquisitions of Maval OE Steering and TCI along with higher stock compensation and incentive compensation expense associated with improved performance.
As a percentage of revenues, general and administrative expenses decreased 20 basis points to 9.5% for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 compared to 9.7% for the same period in 2018.
The increase in expenses is primarily due to added resources (headcount and consulting), the continued ramp up of development projects to meet the future needs of customers and target markets along with the engineering resources associated with the acquired businesses in 2018.
As a percentage of revenues, engineering and development expenses were 6.2% and 6.5% for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The costs in 2019 relate to activity from the December 2018 acquisition of TCI.
The costs in first quarter 2018 were related to the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business and activity associated with other M&A opportunities.
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS: Amortization expense increased 62% to $1,432 in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 due to the increase in intangible assets from the acquisition of TCI.
The effective tax rate is net of a discrete tax benefit of (1.8%) and (2.3%), rate for the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 respectively, related primarily to the recognition of excess tax benefits for share-based payment awards.
Non-GAAP Measures 



Revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are provided for information purposes only and are not measures of financial performance under GAAP.
The Company believes that revenue excluding foreign currency exchange impacts is a useful measure in analyzing organic sales results.
The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from revenue for this measure because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends.
The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between the current period revenue and the current period revenue after applying foreign exchange rates from the prior period.
The Company believes EBITDA is often a useful measure of a Company’s operating performance and is a significant basis used by the Company’s management to measure the operating performance of the Company’s business because EBITDA excludes charges for depreciation, amortization and interest expense that have resulted from our debt financings, as well as our provision for income tax expense.
EBITDA is frequently used as one of the bases for comparing businesses in the Company’s industry.
The Company also believes that Adjusted EBITDA provides helpful information about the operating performance of its business.
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not represent and should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, net cash provided by operating activities or any other measure for determining operating performance or liquidity that is calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
The Company’s calculation of revenues excluding foreign currency exchange impacts for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company’s calculation of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 is as follows (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



23 



Table of Contents 



Liquidity and Capital Resources 



The Company’s liquidity position as measured by cash and cash equivalents decreased by $1,511 to a balance of $10,184 at March 31, 2019 from December 31, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



During the first quarter of 2019, the decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to an increase in working capital needs to support the sequential quarter, primarily for trade receivables.
The significant cash used in investing activities in the first quarter 2018 reflects the acquisition the Maval OE Steering business.
Purchases of property and equipment were $2,505 during the first quarter 2019 compared to $2,222 for the first quarter 2018.
Capital expenditures are expected to increase for the remainder of 2019 to support our continued growth.
The Company expects to invest between $15 million and $18 million in capital expenditures during 2019.
During 2019, the Company utilized revolver borrowings to fund working capital to support the growth seen from fourth quarter 2018 along with the payment of annual incentive compensation amounts.
The cash used in financing activities in first quarter 2018 reflects the use of the revolver to partially finance the acquisition of the Maval OE Steering business.
At March 31, 2019, we had $129,502 of obligations under the Revolving Facility excluding the unamortized debt issue costs.
The Credit Agreement contains certain financial covenants related to minimum interest coverage and total leverage ratio at the end of each quarter.
The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants and restrictions, including limits on the amount of additional indebtedness, and restrictions on the ability to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all our assets.
We were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, the amount available to borrow under the Credit Agreement was approximately $45,498.
The Credit Agreement matures in October 2021.
There were no borrowings for the China Facility balance during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
The Company declared dividends of $0.030 per share during the first quarter 2019 and $0.025 per share during the first quarter of 2018.
The Company’s working capital, capital expenditure and dividend requirements are expected to be funded from cash provided by operations and amounts available under the Credit Agreement.
