Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
ECONOMIC OVERVIEW



Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
In October 2019, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook for 2019.
The update noted that, “Global growth is forecast at 3.0 percent for 2019, its lowest level since 2008–09 and a 0.3 percentage point downgrade from the April 2019 World Economic Outlook.
Growth is projected to pick up to 3.4 percent in 2020 (a 0.2 percentage point downward revision compared with April), reflecting primarily a projected improvement in economic performance in a number of emerging markets in Latin America, the Middle East, and emerging and developing Europe that are under macroeconomic strain.
To forestall such an outcome, policies should decisively aim at defusing trade tensions, reinvigorating multilateral cooperation, and providing timely support to economic activity where needed.
To strengthen resilience, policymakers should address financial vulnerabilities that pose risks to growth in the medium term.
Making growth more inclusive, which is essential for securing better economic prospects for all, should remain an overarching goal."
For fiscal 2020, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW



American Software was incorporated as a Georgia corporation in 1970.
We develop, market and support a portfolio of software and services that deliver enterprise management and collaborative supply chain solutions to the global marketplace.
We have designed our software and services to bring business value to enterprises by supporting their operations over intranets, extranets, client/servers or the Internet.
References to “the Company,” “our products,” “our software,” “our services” and similar references include the appropriate business segment actually providing the product or service.
The Company enables enterprises to accelerate their operations from product concept to customer availability.
Our four brands - Logility, Demand Solutions, Halo and NGC Software - provide a single platform spanning eight supply chain process areas, including demand optimization, inventory optimization, supply optimization, retail optimization, quality and compliance, product lifecycle management, sourcing management and integrated business planning.
Our platform includes advanced analytics and is fueled by supply chain master data, allowing for the automation of critical business processes through the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to a variety of internal and external data streams.
Our primary operating units under our SCM segment include Logility, Inc., New Generation Computing, Inc. (“NGC”), Demand Management, Inc. (“DMI”), and Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”).
Logility and NGC are wholly-owned subsidiaries of American Software; DMI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Logility; and Halo is a division of Logility.
In addition to our core SCM software business, we also offer technology staffing and consulting services through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Proven Method, Inc., in the IT Consulting segment.
The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.
We derive revenues primarily from four sources: software licenses, subscriptions, professional services and other, and maintenance.
We generally determine software license and SaaS fees based on the depth of functionality, contractual term, number of production deployments, users and/or sites licensed and/or subscribed.
Professional services and other revenues consist primarily of fees from software implementation, training, and consulting services.
We bill primarily under time and materials arrangements and recognize revenues as we perform services.
SaaS and maintenance agreements typically are for a one- to three-year term, commencing at the time of the initial contract.
We generally bill these fees, monthly, quarterly and annually in advance under agreements with terms of one to three years, and then recognize the resulting revenues ratably over the term of the agreement.
Our cost of revenue for licenses and subscriptions includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
Our selling expenses mainly include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.
•Dependence on Capital Spending Patterns.
•Acquisition Risks.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
•Competition in General.
24

COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Three-Month Comparisons.
The following table sets forth certain revenue and expense items as a percentage of total revenues and the percentage changes in those items for the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018:



25

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



nm - not meaningful



COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE AND SIX ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2019 AND 2018 



REVENUES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained relatively flat attributable primarily to a 64% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 48% decrease in license revenues, a 7% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 2% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
For the six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to October 31, 2018 revenues remained flat attributable primarily to a 53% increase in subscription fees that were partially offset by a 24% decrease in license revenues, a 6% decrease in maintenance revenues and a 5% decrease in professional fees and other revenues, when compared to the same period last year.
Due to intense competition in our industry, we sometimes discount license fees from our published list price.
Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discount provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract.
While all these factors may affect the discount amount of a particular contract, the overall percentage discount has not materially changed in the recent reported fiscal periods.
International revenues represented approximately 19% and 21% of total revenues in the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, compared to 20% for the same periods in the prior year.
License Revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, license fee revenues decreased 48% and 24%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year.
In the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 47% and 24%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to our transition of new and existing business into the cloud subscription model compared to the historical on premise software model.
The majority of our current license fee revenue is generated from additional users and scope from our existing customers.
For the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 97% and 96% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
For the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 96% and 97% of total license fee revenues, respectively.
Our Other segment license fee revenues decreased by 64% and remained flat, 



27

respectively, for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.
The direct sales channel provided approximately 92% and 94% of license fee revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, compared to approximately 93% and 91% in the comparable periods last year.
The increase in the percentage of sales by our direct sales channel for the six month period was due to our indirect channel selling proportionately more SaaS than license contracts compared to our direct channel.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our margins after commissions on direct sales were approximately 86% and 89%, compared to 85% and 88% in the comparable periods last year.
The increase in margins is due to the mix of sales commission rates based on each individual salesperson’s quotas and related achievement.
For the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 54% and 60%, respectively.
For the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 54% and 55%, respectively.
The indirect channel margins for the current quarter decreased compared to the same periods in the prior year due to the mix of value-added reseller (“VAR”) commission rates.
These margin calculations include only commission expense for comparative purposes and do not include other costs of license fees such as amortization of capitalized software.
Subscription Fees



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, subscription fees revenues increased by 64% and 53%, respectively, primarily due to an increase in the number of contracts, contracts with a higher Annual Contract Value, as well as an increase in multi-year contracts.
This is evidence of our successful transition to the cloud subscription model.
For the six months ended October 31, 2019, cloud services ACV increased approximately 55% to $22.4 million compared to $14.5 million in the same period of the prior year due to increased sales of our products on our cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
ACV is a forward-looking operating measure used by management to better understand cloud services (SaaS and other related cloud services) revenue trends within our business, as it reflects our current estimate of revenue to be generated under existing client contracts in the forward 12-month period.
Professional Services and Other Revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, professional services and other revenues decreased by 2% and 5%, respectively, due to the decreased professional services and other revenues from our Other and IT Consulting segments.
This decrease was partially offset by an increase in professional services and other revenues from our SCM segment.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our Other segment’s revenues decreased 19% and increased 2%, respectively when compared to the same periods last year.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our IT Consulting segment’s revenues decreased 20% and 19% when compared to the same periods in the prior year due to a decrease in project work from existing customers.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our SCM segment’s revenues increased 16% and 8%, respectively, primarily due to a ramp up of implementation project work during the quarter.
Maintenance Revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, maintenance revenues decreased 7% and 6%, respectively when compared to the same periods in the prior year.
Our SCM maintenance revenue decreased 7% and 5% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, when compared to the same periods last year.
The SCM segment accounted for 97% of total maintenance revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 and for the same periods in the prior year.
Typically, our maintenance revenues have had a direct relationship to current and historic license fee revenues, since new licenses are the potential source of new maintenance customers.
29

GROSS MARGIN



The following table provides both dollar amounts (in thousands) and percentage measures of gross margin:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our total gross margin percentages increased when compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to our higher margins on maintenance revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by lower margins on subscription fees and license fee revenue.
Gross Margin on License Fees



License fee gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 decreased and increased, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year.
License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.
Gross Margin on Subscription Fees



Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues decreased from 61% and 64% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 to 53% and 52% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, primarily due to an increase in capitalized software amortization expense and hosting expense.
Gross Margin on Professional Services and Other



Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues increased from 27% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 to 30% for the three months ended October 31, 2019, and increased from 24% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 to 29% for the six months ended October 31, 2019.
This increase was primarily due to higher gross margins in our SCM segment services of 37% and 28% for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, and 34% and 23% for the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, due to higher billing utilization from several large projects ending during the quarter.
Our Other segment professional services gross margin decreased from 51% to 46% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and increased from 45% to 51% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2019, due to higher margin projects year to date.
Our IT Consulting segment professional services gross margin decreased from 24% to 19% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively, and 24% to 20% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2019, respectively, due to lower margin projects in the current quarter.
Professional services and other gross margin is directly related to the level of services and other revenues.
The primary component of cost of services and other revenues is services staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
Gross Margin on Maintenance



Maintenance gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 increased to 83% from 81% when compared to the same periods last year due to cost containment efforts.
The primary cost component is maintenance staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
30

EXPENSES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



nm - not meaningful



Research and Development



Gross product research and development costs include all non-capitalized and capitalized software development costs.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, gross product research and development costs increased 6% and 4%, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the previous year due partially to increased variable compensation and infrastructure costs in our SCM segment.
31

Sales and Marketing



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, sales and marketing expenses decreased 3% and increased 2%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to the timing of marketing costs.
General and Administrative



For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, general and administrative expenses increased 11% and 13%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to an increase in variable compensation and to a lesser extent legal fees.
At October 31, 2019, the total number of employees was 411 compared to 452 at October 31, 2018.
Operating Income/(Loss)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



nm - not meaningful



*Includes all corporate overhead and other common expenses.
Our SCM segment operating income increased by 10% and 17% in the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to an overall increase in revenues and improved gross margins.
Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income decreased by 103% and 78% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, compared to same periods last year primarily due to decreased revenues and gross margins.
Our Other segment operating loss increased by 23% and 19% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, when compared to the same periods in the prior year due to an increase in corporate expenses, primarily variable compensation.
Other Income



Other income is comprised of net interest and dividend income, rental income, exchange rate gains and losses, and realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, the increase in other income is mainly due to higher unrealized gains on investments when compared to the same periods last year.
We recorded realized losses of approximately $93,000 and $365,000 and unrealized gains of approximately $386,000 and $721,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
We recorded realized losses of approximately $157,000 and $205,000 and unrealized losses of approximately $543,000 and $107,000 the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, our investments generated an annualized yield of approximately 1.29% and 1.35%, respectively, compared to approximately 1.32% and 1.40% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively.
We establish a deferred tax asset for the expected future benefit of net operating loss and credit carry-forwards.
During the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, we recorded an income tax benefit of $204,000 and $34,000, respectively, primarily due to discrete stock compensation benefits of $412,000 and $472,000 respectively, net of normal income tax expense from operations.
During the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, we recorded income tax expense of $93,000 and $68,000, respectively, primarily due to discrete stock compensation benefits of $12,000 and $286,000 respectively, net of normal income tax expense from operations.
Before adjusting for these discrete tax benefits, our effective tax rate would have been 13.4% and 15.3%, respectively, in the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to our tax effective rate of 7.9% and 13.1% in the three and six months ended October 31, 2018.
In addition, research and development and foreign tax credits reduced our effective tax rate by 8.1% and 1.4%, respectively, in the six months ended October 31, 2019, compared to reductions of 8.0% and 3.0%, respectively, in the six months ended October 31, 2018.
We expect this pattern to continue.
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL CONDITION



Sources and Uses of Cash



We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities.
We have no debt obligations or off-balance sheet financing arrangements, and therefore, we used no cash for debt service purposes.
The following table shows information about our cash flows and liquidity positions during the six months ended October 31, 2019 and 2018.
You should read this table and the discussion that follows in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows contained in Item 1 in Part I of this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report for fiscal 2019.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the six months ended October 31, 2019, the net decrease in cash provided by operating activities when compared to the same period last year was due primarily to the following: (1) an increase in purchases of trading securities, (2) a relative increase in prepaid expenses when compared to the same period in the prior year due to the timing of purchases and (3) higher gains on investments compared to lower gains in the same period last year.
This decrease in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by: (1) higher proceeds from the maturity and sales of trading securities, (2) a relative increase in accounts payable and other accruals due to timing of payments, (3) a relative increase in deferred revenue due to timing of revenue recognition, (4) an increase in depreciation and amortization, (5) an increase in net earnings, (6) a decrease in deferred income tax, (7) an increase in stock-based compensation expense and (8) a relative decrease in customer accounts receivables caused by the timing of closing customer sales and related collections.
The decrease in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was mainly due to decreases in purchases of property and capitalized computer software development costs.
The decrease in cash used in financing activities compared to the prior year was due primarily to an increase in proceeds from exercise of stock options, which was partially offset by an increase in dividends paid.
33

The following table shows net changes in total cash, cash equivalents, and investments, which is one measure management uses to understand net total cash generated by our activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our total activities used less cash and investments during the six months ended October 31, 2019, when compared to the prior year period, primarily due to normal business operations.
Days Sales Outstanding in accounts receivable were 58 days as of October 31, 2019, compared to 66 days as of October 31, 2018.
This increase is primarily due to the timing of billings and cash collections.
Our current ratio on October 31, 2019 was 2.7 to 1 and on October 31, 2018 was 2.8 to 1.
Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities.
For this reason, and because we had $95.0 million in cash and investments with no debt as of October 31, 2019, we believe that our sources of liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our presently anticipated requirements during at least the next twelve months for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate needs.
However, at some future date we may need to seek additional sources of capital to meet our requirements.
If such need arises, we may be required to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing.
We do not currently have a bank line of credit.
We can provide no assurance that bank lines of credit or other financing will be available on terms acceptable to us.
If available, such financing may result in dilution to our shareholders or higher interest expense.
On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock.
Under this repurchase plan, through October 31, 2019, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million.
As of October 31, 2019, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.
Note 1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report for fiscal 2019, describes the significant accounting policies that we have used in preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition.
For information with respect to revenue recognition policy, see Note B in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
35

Item 3Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



Foreign Currency.
In the three and six months ended October 31, 2019, we generated approximately 19% and 21% of our revenues outside the United States.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $0.1 million and $0.2 million for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019 compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the same periods in the prior year.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $0.3 million and $0.4 million exchange rate gain or loss for the three and six months ended October 31, 2019.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.
Interest Rates and Other Market Risks.
We have no debt, and therefore limit our discussion of interest rate risk to risk associated with our investment profile.
We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio of trading investments with high credit quality and relatively short average maturities.
These instruments include, but are not limited to, money-market instruments, bank time deposits, and taxable and tax-advantaged variable rate and fixed rate obligations of corporations, municipalities, and national, state, and local government agencies, in accordance with an investment policy approved by our Board of Directors.
These instruments are denominated in U.S. dollars.
The fair market value of these instruments as of October 31, 2019 was approximately $89.7 million compared to $74.9 million as of October 31, 2018.
These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term time deposits of the local bank.
Such operating cash balances held at banks outside the United States are denominated in the local currency and are minor.
Many of our investments carry a degree of interest rate risk.
When interest rates fall, our income from investments in variable-rate securities declines.
When interest rates rise, the fair market value of our investments in fixed-rate securities declines.
In addition, our investments in equity securities are subject to stock market volatility.
We attempt to mitigate risk by holding fixed-rate securities to maturity, but, if our liquidity needs force us to sell fixed-rate securities prior to maturity, we may experience a loss of principal.
Inflation.
Although we cannot accurately determine the amounts attributable thereto, we have been affected by inflation through increased costs of employee compensation and other operational expenses.
To the extent permitted by the marketplace for our products and services, we attempt to recover increases in costs by periodically increasing prices.
36

Item 4.Controls and Procedures



Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



Our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)) are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding disclosure.
Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.
Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



There have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the fiscal quarter to which this report relates that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
37

PART II—OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



We are not currently involved in legal proceedings requiring disclosure under this item.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



None.
Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities



Not applicable.
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures



Not applicable.
Item 5.Other Information



None.
Item 6.Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________



(1)Incorporated by reference herein.
Filed by the Company as an exhibit to its Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1990.
(P) Filed in paper format.
(2)Incorporated by reference herein.
Filed by the Company as Exhibit 3.1 to its Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2010.
38

SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



39
