 Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  



Foreign Currency.
In each of the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% of our revenues outside the United States.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.
We recorded exchange rate losses of approximately $108,000 and of $355,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, compared to an exchange rate loss of approximately $41,000 and a gain of $400 for the three months and six months ended October 31, 2017, respectively.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $387,000 exchange rate gain or loss for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.
Interest Rates and Other Market Risks.
We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio of trading investments with high credit quality and relatively short average maturities.
These instruments include, but are not limited to, money-market instruments, bank time deposits, and taxable and tax-advantaged variable rate and fixed rate obligations of corporations, municipalities, and national, state, and local government agencies, in accordance with an investment policy approved by our Board of Directors.
These instruments are denominated in U.S. dollars.
The fair market value of these instruments as of October 31, 2018 was approximately $74.9 million compared to $86.6 million as of October 31, 2017.
These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term time deposits of the local bank.
Such operating cash balances held at banks outside the United States are denominated in the local currency and are minor.
Many of our investments carry a degree of interest rate risk.
When interest rates fall, our income from investments in variable-rate securities declines.
When interest rates rise, the fair market value of our investments in fixed-rate securities declines.
In addition, our investments in equity securities are subject to stock market volatility.
Inflation.
36   



Table of Contents 



 Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



Not applicable.
