 Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  



Foreign Currency.
In the three months ended July 31, 2018, we generated approximately 20% of our revenues outside the United States.
However, expenses incurred in connection with these sales are typically denominated in the local currencies.
We recorded an exchange rate loss of approximately $247,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to an exchange rate gain of $41,000 for the same period in the prior year.
We estimate that a 10% movement in foreign currency rates would have had the effect of creating up to a $306,000 exchange gain or loss for the three months ended July 31, 2018.
We have not engaged in any hedging activities.
Interest Rates and Other Market Risks.
We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio of trading investments with high credit quality and relatively short average maturities.
These instruments include, but are not limited to, money-market instruments, bank time deposits, and taxable and tax-advantaged variable rate and fixed rate obligations of corporations, municipalities, and national, state, and local government agencies, in accordance with an investment policy approved by our Board of Directors.
These instruments are denominated in U.S. dollars.
The fair market value of these instruments as of July 31, 2018 was approximately $77.9 million compared to $85.8 million as of July 31, 2017.
These cash balances represent operating balances only and are invested in short-term time deposits of the local bank.
Such operating cash balances held at banks outside the United States are denominated in the local currency and are minor.
Many of our investments carry a degree of interest rate risk.
When interest rates fall, our income from investments in variable-rate securities declines.
When interest rates rise, the fair market value of our investments in fixed-rate securities declines.
In addition, our investments in equity securities are subject to stock market volatility.
Inflation.
31   



Table of Contents 



 Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



Not applicable.
