 Item 1.
Financial Statements  



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)  



(in thousands, except share data)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
3  



Table of Contents 



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)  



(in thousands, except earnings per share data)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a) Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B shares.
Diluted per share amounts for Class A shares are shown above.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B shares under the two-class method are $0.18 and $0.08 for the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, and $0.35 and $0.15 for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
See Note D to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
4  



Table of Contents 



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)  



(in thousands)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
5  



Table of Contents 



AMERICAN SOFTWARE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements—Unaudited  



January 31, 2018  



A.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company’s results for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
Principles of Consolidation  



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”).
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
B.
Revenue Recognition  



We recognize revenue in accordance with the Software Revenue Recognition Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”).
For multiple-element arrangements, we recognize revenue under the residual method, whereby (1) the total fair value of the undelivered elements, as indicated by VSOE, is deferred and subsequently recognized and (2) the difference between the total arrangement fee and the amount deferred for the undelivered elements is recognized as revenue related to the delivered elements.
We record revenues from sales of third-party products in accordance with Principal Agent Considerations within the Revenue Recognition Topic of the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification.
Maintenance.
Revenue derived from maintenance contracts primarily includes telephone consulting, product updates, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Maintenance contracts are typically sold for a separate fee with initial contractual periods ranging from one to three years with renewal for additional periods thereafter.
Maintenance fees are generally billed annually in advance.
We recognize maintenance  



6  



Table of Contents 



 revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement.
In situations where we bundle all or a portion of the maintenance fee with the license fee, VSOE for maintenance is determined based on prices when sold separately.
Services.
Revenue derived from services primarily includes consulting, implementation, and training.
We primarily bill fees under time and materials arrangements and recognize them as we perform the services.
These amounts totaled approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively, and $414,000 and $1.6 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2017, respectively.
The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually.
SaaS revenues (which rolls into services and other revenue) are recognized ratably over the subscription period once the services commence.
Other cloud revenues consists of managed and hosting services.
Indirect Channel Revenue.
Deferred Revenue.
Deferred revenue represents advance payments or billings for software licenses, services, and maintenance billed in advance of the time revenue is recognized.
Sales Taxes.
Unbilled Accounts Receivable.
At January 31, 2018 and April 30, 2017, unbilled license fees were approximately $384,000 and $1.0 million, respectively, and unbilled services revenues were approximately $2.3 million and $1.8 million, respectively.
Unbilled license fee accounts receivable represents revenue that has been recognized, but under the terms of the license agreement, which include specified payment terms that are considered normal and customary, certain payments have not yet been invoiced to the customers.
Unbilled services revenues primarily occur due to the timing of the respective billings, which occur subsequent to the end of each reporting period.
C. Declaration of Dividend Payable  



On November 15, 2017, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B Common Stock.
The cash dividend was payable on February 23, 2018 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on February 9, 2018.
D. Earnings per Common Share  



We have two classes of common stock, of which Class B Common Shares are convertible into Class A Common Shares at any time, on a one-for-one basis.
Under our Articles of Incorporation, if we declare dividends, holders of Class A Common Shares shall receive a $0.05 dividend per share prior to the Class B Common Shares receiving any dividend and holders of Class A Common Shares shall receive a dividend at least equal to Class B Common Shares dividends on a per share basis.
As a result, we have computed the earnings per share in accordance with Earnings Per Share within the Presentation Topic of the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification, which requires companies that have multiple classes of equity securities to use the “two-class” method in computing earnings per share.
For our basic earnings per share calculation, we use the “two-class” method.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net earnings attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of shares outstanding.
This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common shares to Class A Common shares.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is similar to the calculation of basic earnings per share, except that the calculation includes the dilutive effect of the assumed exercise of options issuable under our stock incentive plans.
For our diluted earnings per  



7  



Table of Contents 



 share calculation for Class A Common Shares, we use the “if-converted” method.
This calculation assumes that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares (if antidilutive) and, as a result, assumes there are no holders of Class B Common Shares to participate in undistributed earnings.
For our diluted earnings per share calculation for Class B Common Shares, we use the “two-class” method.
This calculation does not assume that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares.
In addition, this method assumes the dilutive effect if Class A stock options were converted to Class A Common Shares and the undistributed earnings are allocated evenly to both Class A and B Common Shares including Class A Common Shares issued pursuant to those converted stock options.
This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares into Class A Common Shares.
The following tables set forth the computation of basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share (in thousands except for per share amounts):  



Basic earnings per common share:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Diluted EPS for Class A Common Shares Using the If-Converted Method  



Three Months Ended January 31, 2018  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



8  



Table of Contents 



Nine Months Ended January 31, 2018  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Three Months Ended January 31, 2017  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Nine Months Ended January 31, 2017  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



9  



Table of Contents 



Diluted EPS for Class B Common Shares Using the Two-Class Method  



Three Months Ended January 31, 2018  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Nine Months Ended January 31, 2018  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Three Months Ended January 31, 2017  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Nine Months Ended January 31, 2017  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 * Amounts adjusted for rounding  



10  



Table of Contents 



For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, we excluded options to purchase 12,130 and 57,598 Class A Common Shares, respectively, and for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2017, we excluded options to purchase 374,439 and 337,500 Class A Common Shares, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per Class A Common Shares.
We excluded these option share amounts because the exercise prices of those options were greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Shares during the applicable period.
As of January 31, 2018, we had a total of 3,470,017 options outstanding and, as of January 31, 2017, we had a total of 3,230,575 options outstanding.
E. Acquisitions  



We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded based upon management’s estimates of current fair values as of the acquisition date.
The estimation process includes analyses based on income and market approaches.
Goodwill represents the excess purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets.
The goodwill generated is due in part to the synergies that are not included in the fair value of identifiable intangible assets.
Goodwill recorded in an acquisition is assigned to applicable reporting units based on expected revenues.
Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives.
Amortization of current technology is recorded in cost of revenues-license and amortization of all other intangible assets is recorded in amortization of acquisition-related intangibles.
Effective November 21, 2017, the Company acquired certain assets of privately held Innovare Holding Co., Incorporated, a Delaware corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Halo”) and a supplier of advanced analytics and business intelligence solutions, for the supply chain market, pursuant to the terms of an asset purchase agreement, dated as of November 21, 2017 (the “Purchase Agreement”).
Halo’s advanced analytics will be embedded into the Logility Voyager Solutions advanced analytics platform.
These enriched analytics will leverage interactive visualization, machine learning algorithms, and artificial intelligence (AI) to transform both structured and unstructured data to accelerate business planning performance and proactively identify new business opportunities or mitigate risks.
Customers on the DMI and NGC platforms will be able to add pre-packaged Halo advanced analytics capabilities to their subscriptions to drive quick insights and appropriate actions for their businesses.
In addition, Logility will continue to offer Halo standalone to complement other enterprise systems.
Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company acquired the assets of Halo for cash consideration paid of approximately $9.25 million, which represents a purchase price of approximately $9.95 million net of a $700,000 negative working capital adjustment, subject to certain post-closing adjustments, which included an additional negative working capital adjustment of $113,000 (recorded as a receivable), thus resulting in an adjusted purchase price consideration of $9.14 million.
The Company incurred acquisition costs of approximately $73,000 and $91,000 during the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.
The operating results of Halo are not material for pro forma disclosure.
We preliminarily allocated $5,919,000 of the total purchase price to goodwill, which has been assigned to the Supply Chain Management segment and is deductible for income tax purposes.
The fair value of deferred revenues in a business combination is considered to be an assumed liability (which must arise from a legal performance obligation) and, accordingly, is estimated based on the direct cost of fulfilling the obligation plus a normal profit margin, which approximates fair value.
F. Stock-Based Compensation  



During the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, we granted options for 1,196,000 and 342,000 shares of common stock, respectively.
We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $314,000 and $333,000 and related income tax benefits of approximately $138,000 and $124,000 during the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $1.1 million and $1.1 million and related income tax benefits of approximately $413,000 and $409,000 during the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued 778,129 and 593,082 shares of common stock, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 based on market value at the exercise dates was approximately $2.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
As of January 31, 2018, unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards approximated $3.6 million, which we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 1.85 years.
G. Fair Value of Financial Instruments  



We measure our investments based on a fair value hierarchy disclosure framework that prioritizes and ranks the level of market price observability used in measuring assets and liabilities at fair value.
This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as follows:  



   •   Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
•   Level 2—Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets.
•   Level 3—Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.
12  



Table of Contents 



The following is a general description of the valuation methodologies we use for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, including the general classification of such assets and liabilities pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
Cash Equivalents—Cash equivalents include investments in government obligation based money-market funds, other money market instruments and interest-bearing deposits with initial terms of three months or less.
The fair value of cash equivalents approximates its carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
Marketable Securities—Marketable securities utilizing Level 1 inputs include active exchange-traded equity securities and equity index funds, and most U.S. Government debt securities, as these securities all have quoted prices in active markets.
Marketable securities utilizing Level 2 inputs include municipal bonds.
We value these securities using market-corroborated pricing or other models that use observable inputs such as yield curves.
The following tables present our assets and liabilities that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of January 31, 2018 and April 30, 2017, respectively, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques we used to determine such fair value (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



H. Stock Repurchases  



On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock.
As of January 31, 2018, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.
I.
J.
Industry Segments  



FASB ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments.
Operating segments are defined as components of a public entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision makers, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
Our chief operating decision makers (“CODMs”) are our Principal Executive Officer (“PEO”) and President.
As a result, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we updated our operating segments to reflect the fact that we provide our software solutions through three major operating segments, which are further broken down into a total of six major product and service groups.
The three operating segments are (1) Supply Chain Management (“SCM”), (2) Information Technology (“IT”) Consulting and (3) Other.
The SCM segment consists of Logility, which provides supply chain optimization and advance retail planning solutions, as an integrated suite of sales and operations planning, demand optimization, inventory optimization, manufacturing planning and scheduling, supply optimization, retail allocation and merchandise planning and transportation optimization, as well as (i) DMI, which provides collaborative supply chain solutions to streamline and optimize the forecasting, inventory, production, supply, allocation, distribution and management of products between trading partners, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which provides cloud solutions for supply chain management, product lifecycle management, quality control, vendor compliance and enterprise resource planning for both retailers and manufacturers in the apparel, sewn products and furniture industries, and (iii) Halo, which provides advanced analytics and business intelligence solutions for the supply chain market.
The IT Consulting segment consists of The Proven Method, Inc., an IT staffing and consulting services firm, which provides support for our software products, such as software enhancements, documentation, updates, customer education, consulting, systems integration services, maintenance and support services.
Previously, we maintained three operating segments: (1) SCM, (2) IT and (3) Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”).
As a result of the organizational realignment during the third quarter fiscal 2018, NGC was repositioned out of the ERP segment and into the SCM segment.
There were no changes to the IT segment.
Certain prior year amounts have been recasted to conform to fiscal 2018 presentation.
All of our revenues are derived from external customers.
We do not have any inter-segment revenue.
Consequently, it is not practical to show these items by operating segment.
14  



Table of Contents 



In the following table, we have broken down the intersegment transactions applicable to the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



15  



Table of Contents 



Major Customer  



No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018 and 2017.
We have historically not been required to make any payments under such indemnifications.
Additionally, we are involved in various claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
The cash dividend is payable on May 25, 2018 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on May 11, 2018.
16  



Table of Contents 



 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings  



We are not currently involved in legal proceedings requiring disclosure under this item.
32  



Table of Contents 



 Item 1A.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors as previously disclosed in such Annual Report on Form 10-K.
