Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, with the assistance of our Disclosure Committee, have conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.
Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report.
See Notes A and B within the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the impact of adopting Topic 606 and ongoing considerations.
In connection with the adoption of Topic 606, we modified our internal control over financial reporting (as this term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act), including our accounting policies and procedures, operational processes and documentation practices.
These modifications included:



•updates to our policies and procedures for revenue recognition, including assessment of SSP and documentation processes related to meeting the new criteria for revenue recognition;



•changes to our contract review controls to take into account the new criteria for recognizing revenue, with specific focus on assessing whether the allocation objective is met;



•the addition of controls for reviewing recoverability of contract assets and reevaluation of our significant contract judgments and estimates on a periodic basis; and



•the addition of controls to address related required disclosures, including processes to evaluate changes in contract assets and liabilities and disaggregation of revenue.
38

Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures



Not applicable.
Item 5.Other Information



None.
Item 6.Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________



(1)Incorporated by reference herein.
Filed by the Company as an exhibit to its Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1990.
(P) Filed in paper format.
(2)Incorporated by reference herein.
Filed by the Company as Exhibit 3.1 to its Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2010.
39

SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



40
