Item 1.
Financial Statements



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)



(in thousands, except share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
3

American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited)



(in thousands, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________



(a)Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B shares.
Diluted per share amounts for Class A shares are shown above.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B shares under the two-class method are $0.07 and $0.18 for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, and $0.16 and $0.36 for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
See Note D to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
4

American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)



(in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
5

AMERICAN SOFTWARE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements—Unaudited



January 31, 2019



A.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
The Company’s results for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The terms “fiscal 2019” and “fiscal 2018” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Note 1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for fiscal 2018 contained in the Annual Report describes the significant accounting policies that we have used in preparing our consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2018 and the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2018 have not been revised for the effects of Topic 606 and are therefore not comparable to the January 31, 2019 period.
Principles of Consolidation



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. (“American Software”) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”).
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced the previous revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
Under this method, the Company elected to apply the cumulative effect method to contracts that are not complete as of the adoption date.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit, which the Company has determined to be six years, which will have an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet will be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase in contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
6

The following table presents the cumulative effect of adjustments, net of income tax effects, to beginning consolidated balance sheet accounts for the new accounting standard adopted by the Company on the first day of fiscal 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7

The following table summarizes the effects of adopting Topic 606 on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet as of January 31, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



8

The following table summarizes the effects of adopting Topic 606 on the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended January 31, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



9

The following table summarizes the effects of adopting Topic 606 on the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended January 31, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10

The Company’s net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 did not change due to the adoption of Topic 606.
The following table summarizes the effects of adopting Topic 606 on the financial statement line items of the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which established new ASC Topic 842 (ASC 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.
Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease.
However, unlike current GAAP, which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet.
ASC 842 was previously required to be adopted using the modified retrospective approach.
However, in July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, which allows for retrospective application with the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
Under this option, entities would not need to apply ASC 842 (along with its disclosure requirements) to the comparative prior periods presented.
B.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps:



11

Step 1 – Identification of the Contract with the Customer



Step 2 – Identification of Promised Goods and Services and Evaluation of Whether the Promised Goods and Services are Distinct Performance Obligations



Step 3 – Determination of the Transaction Price



Step 4 – Allocation of the Transaction Price to Distinct Performance Obligations



Step 5 – Attribution of Revenue for Each Distinct Performance Obligation



Nature of Products and Services.
Subscription Fees.
Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party.
The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty.
The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually.
The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Professional Services and other.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $336,000 and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, and approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.
Maintenance.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer.
Maintenance terms typically range from one to three years.
Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term; therefore, time is the best measure of progress.
Indirect Channel Revenue.
Sales Taxes.
Significant Judgments.
Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract.
We allocate the transaction price to distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price (“SSP”).
Therefore, we estimate SSP for software licenses using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price less the SSP of other products and services promised in the contract.
When 



12

performing relative selling price allocations, we use the contract price as the estimate of SSP if it falls within the Company’s range estimate of SSP since any point within the range would be a valid price point on a standalone basis.
Contract Balances.
Fees for our software licenses are generally due within 30 days of contract execution.
SaaS solutions and maintenance are typically billed in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis.
Services are typically billed as performed.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with predictable ways to purchase our software and services, not to provide or receive financing.
Additionally, we are applying the practical expedient to exclude any financing component from consideration for any contracts with payment terms of one year or less since we rarely offer terms extending beyond one year.
The consideration in our customer contracts is fixed.
That unconditional right to consideration is reflected in billed and unbilled accounts receivable in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606.
Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services.
We typically invoice customers for cloud subscription and support fees in advance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, with payment due at the start of the cloud subscription or support term.
During the nine months ended January 31, 2019, we recognized $13 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of April 30, 2018, as adjusted for Topic 606, at the beginning of the period.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Remaining Performance Obligations.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under Topic 606.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring the promised good or service to the customer.
The Company identifies and tracks the performance obligations at contract inception so that the Company can monitor and account for the performance obligations over the life of the contract.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of orders for which products have not been delivered or services have not been performed.
As of January 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $59 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately three-quarters of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter.
Disaggregated Revenue.
The Company’s revenue by geography is as follows:



13

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Practical Expedients and Exemptions.
There are several practical expedients and exemptions allowed under Topic 606 that impact the timing of revenue recognition and the Company’s disclosures.
Below is a list of practical expedients the Company applied in the adoption and application of Topic 606:



-The Company does not evaluate a contract for a significant financing component if payment is expected within one year or less from the transfer of the promised items to the customer.
-The Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it has the right to invoice for services performed (apply to time-and-material engagements).
Contract Costs.
The incremental costs of obtaining a contract are those that the Company incurs to obtain a contract with a customer that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained (for example, a sales commission).
The Company capitalizes the costs incurred to fulfill a contract only if those costs meet all of the following criteria:



a.The costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the Company can specifically identify.
b.The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.
c.The costs are expected to be recovered.
Certain sales commissions incurred by the Company were determined to be incremental costs to obtain the related contracts, which are deferred and amortized ratably over the economic benefit period.
These deferred commission costs are classified as current or non-current based on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense.
Total deferred commissions at January 31, 2019 and April 30, 2018 were $2.5 million and $2.5 million, respectively.
Amortization of sales commissions was $0.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and $0.7 million for the nine months ended January 31, 2019, which is included in sales and marketing expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations.
No impairment losses were recognized during the periods.
C. Declaration of Dividend Payable



On November 15, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock.
The cash dividend is payable on February 22, 2019 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on February 8, 2019.
D. Earnings Per Common Share



We have two classes of common stock: Class A Common Shares and Class B Common Shares.
Our Class B Common Shares are convertible into Class A Common Shares at any time, on a one-for-one basis.
Under our Articles of Incorporation, if we declare dividends, holders of Class A Common Shares shall receive a $0.05 dividend per share prior to the Class B Common Shares receiving any dividend and holders of Class A Common Shares shall receive a dividend at least equal to Class B Common Shares dividends on a per share basis.
As a result, we have computed the earnings per share in accordance with Earnings Per Share within the Presentation Topic of the FASB ASC, which requires companies that have multiple classes of equity securities to use the “two-class” method in computing earnings per share.
14

For our basic earnings per share calculation, we use the “two-class” method.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net earnings attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of shares outstanding.
This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares into Class A Common Shares.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is similar to the calculation of basic earnings per share, except that the calculation includes the dilutive effect of the assumed exercise of options issuable under our stock incentive plans.
For our diluted earnings per share calculation for Class A Common Shares, we use the “if-converted” method.
This calculation assumes that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares (if antidilutive) and, as a result, assumes there are no holders of Class B Common Shares to participate in undistributed earnings.
For our diluted earnings per share calculation for Class B Common Shares, we use the “two-class” method.
This calculation does not assume that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares.
In addition, this method assumes the dilutive effect if Class A stock options are converted to Class A Common Shares and the undistributed earnings are allocated evenly to both Class A and B Common Shares including Class A Common Shares issued pursuant to those converted stock options.
This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares into Class A Common Shares.
The following tables set forth the computation of basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share (in thousands except for per share amounts):



Basic earnings per common share:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Diluted EPS for Class A Common Shares Using the If-Converted Method



15

Three Months Ended January 31, 2019



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Nine Months Ended January 31, 2019 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended January 31, 2018 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Nine Months Ended January 31, 2018



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Diluted EPS for Class B Common Shares Using the Two-Class Method



16

Three Months Ended January 31, 2019



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Nine Months Ended January 31, 2019



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended January 31, 2018



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Nine Months Ended January 31, 2018



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



*Amounts adjusted for rounding



For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we excluded options to purchase 2,416,421 and 464,475 Class A Common Shares, respectively, and for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, we excluded options to purchase 12,130 and 57,598 Class A Common Shares, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per Class A Common Shares.
We excluded these option share amounts because the exercise prices of those options were greater than the average 



17

market price of the Class A Common Shares during the applicable period.
As of January 31, 2019, we had a total of 4,017,123 options outstanding and as of January 31, 2018, we had a total of 3,470,017 options outstanding.
E. Stock-Based Compensation



During the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we granted options for 1,201,000 and 1,196,000 shares of Class A common stock, respectively.
The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The forfeiture rates are estimated using historical data.
We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $466,000 and $314,000 and income tax shortfall of approximately $26,000 and shortfall of $25,000 from option exercises during the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $1.3 million and $1.1 million, and income tax excess benefit of approximately $260,000 and benefit of $51,000 from option exercises during the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We record stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period directly to additional paid-in capital.
During the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we issued 456,113 and 778,129 shares of Class A common stock, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 based on market value at the exercise dates was approximately $2.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively.
As of January 31, 2019, unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards approximated $5.0 million, which we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 1.94 years.
F. Fair Value of Financial Instruments



We measure our investments based on a fair value hierarchy disclosure framework that prioritizes and ranks the level of market price observability used in measuring assets and liabilities at fair value.
This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as follows:



•Level 1—Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
•Level 2—Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets.
•Level 3—Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.
The following is a general description of the valuation methodologies we use for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, including the general classification of such assets and liabilities pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
Cash Equivalents—Cash equivalents include investments in government obligation based money-market funds, other money market instruments and interest-bearing deposits with initial terms of three months or less.
The fair value of cash equivalents approximates its carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
Marketable Securities—Marketable securities utilizing Level 1 inputs include active exchange-traded equity securities and equity index funds, and most U.S. Government debt securities, as these securities all have quoted prices in active markets.
Marketable securities utilizing Level 2 inputs include municipal bonds.
We value these securities using market-corroborated pricing or other models that use observable inputs such as yield curves.
Under this repurchase plan, through January 31, 2019, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of Class A common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million.
As of January 31, 2019, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.
H. Comprehensive Income



We have not included condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements since comprehensive income and net earnings presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations would be substantially the same.
I.
Industry Segments



FASB ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments.
Operating segments are defined as components of a public entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision makers (“CODMs”), or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
Our CODMs are our Principal Executive Officer (“PEO”) and President.
We recently updated our operating segments to reflect the fact that we provide our software solutions through three major operating segments, which are further broken down into a total of six major product and service groups.
The three operating segments are (1) Supply Chain Management (“SCM”), (2) Information Technology (“IT”) Consulting and (3) Other.
The SCM segment primarily consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain 



19

operations to gain a competitive advantage and which is recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI).
The SCM segment also includes (i) Demand Management, Inc (“DMI”), which delivers affordable, easy-to-use SaaS supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”), which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Previously, we maintained three operating segments: (1) SCM, (2) IT and (3) Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”).
As a result of the organizational realignment during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, NGC was repositioned out of the ERP segment and into the SCM segment.
There were no changes to the IT segment.
Certain prior year amounts have been recast to conform to fiscal 2019 presentation.
All of our revenues are derived from external customers.
We do not have any intersegment revenue.
Consequently, it is not practical to show these items by operating segment.
20

In the following table, we have broken down the intersegment transactions applicable to the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



*Fiscal 2018 recast to adjust for corporate overhead and other common expenses, which were no longer allocated starting in fiscal 2019.
21

J.
Major Customers



No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.
Historically, we have not been required to make any payments under such indemnifications.
The cash dividend is payable on May 24, 2019 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on May 10, 2019.
22
