 Item 2.
Any forward-looking statements we make herein are pursuant to the safe harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
All forward-looking statements included in this report on Form 10-Q are based upon information available to us as of the filing date of this report on Form 10-Q.
We undertake no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements for any reason.
We discuss certain factors in greater detail in “Business Overview” below.
The term “fiscal 2019” and “fiscal 2018” refers to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
ECONOMIC OVERVIEW  



Corporate capital spending trends and commitments are the primary determinants of the size of the market for business software.
In July 2018, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook (“WEO”) for the 2018 and 2019 world economic growth forecast.
The update noted that, “Global growth is projected to reach 3.9 percent in 2018 and 2019, in line with the forecast of the April 2018 World Economic Outlook (WEO), but the expansion is becoming less even, and risks to the outlook are mounting.
The rate of expansion appears to have peaked in some major economies and growth has become less synchronized.
In the United States, near-term momentum is strengthening in line with the April WEO forecast, and the US dollar has appreciated by around 5 percent in recent weeks.
Growth projections have been revised down for the euro area, Japan, and the United Kingdom, reflecting negative surprises to activity in early 2018.
Growth projections have been revised down for Argentina, Brazil, and India, while the outlook for some oil exporters has strengthened.”  



For fiscal 2019, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year.
We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve productivity by upgrading their technology systems, which could result in an improved selling environment.
Customers continue to take long periods to evaluate discretionary software purchases.
19   



Table of Contents 



We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases.
If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW  



American Software was incorporated as a Georgia corporation in 1970.
We develop, market and support a portfolio of software and services that deliver enterprise management and collaborative supply chain solutions to the global marketplace.
We have designed our software and services to bring business value to enterprises by supporting their operations over intranets, extranets, client/servers or the Internet.
References to “the Company,” “our products,” “our software,” “our services” and similar references include the appropriate business segment actually providing the product or service.
The SCM segment consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain operations to gain a competitive advantage.
Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.
We derive revenues primarily from four sources: software licenses, subscriptions, professional services and other, and maintenance.
We generally determine software license and SaaS fees based on the depth of functionality, contractual term, number of production deployments, users and/or sites licensed and/or subscribed.
Professional Services and other revenues consist primarily of fees from software implementation, training, and consulting services.
We bill primarily under time and materials arrangements and recognize revenues as we perform services.
SaaS and maintenance agreements typically are for a one- to three-year term, commencing at the time of the initial contract.
We generally bill these fees annually in advance under agreements with terms of one to three years, and then recognize the resulting revenues ratably over the term of the agreement.
Deferred revenue represent advance payments or billings for subscriptions, software licenses, services and maintenance billed in advance of the time we recognize the related revenues.
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI.
We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Intangibles—Goodwill and Other topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification.
We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues.
We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
Our selling expenses generally include the salary and commissions paid to our sales professionals, along with marketing, promotional, travel and associated costs.
•    



Acquisition Opportunities.
•    



Acquisition Risks.
More specifically, in any acquisition we will face risks and challenges associated with the uncertain value of the acquired business or assets, the difficulty of assimilating operations and personnel, integrating acquired technologies and products and maintaining the loyalty of the customers of the acquired business.
•    



Competitive Technologies.
•    



Competition in General.
21   



Table of Contents 



COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  



Three-Month Comparisons.
The following table sets forth certain revenue and expense items as a percentage of total revenues and the percentage changes in those items for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JULY 31, 2018 AND 2017  



REVENUES  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



22   



Table of Contents 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, the 2% increase in revenues over the three months ended July 31, 2017 was attributable primarily to a 96% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 6% increase in professional services and maintenance revenues, respectively when compared to the same period last year.
This increase was partially offset by a 58% decrease in license revenues.
Due to intense competition in our industry, we do discount license fees from our published list price.
Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discounts provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract.
While all these factors may affect the discount amount of a particular contract, the overall percentage discount has not materially changed in the recent reported fiscal periods.
International revenues represented approximately 20% of total revenues in the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
License Revenues  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, license fee revenues decreased 58% when compared to the same period in the prior year.
In the three months ended July 31, 2018, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 58% when compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s Cloud Services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
Our SCM segment constituted approximately 99% and 100% of total license fee revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Our Other segment license fee revenues increased by 67% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.
The direct sales channel provided approximately 89% of license fee revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018, compared to approximately 86% in the comparable quarter a year ago.
The increase in the proportion of sales by our direct sales channel was due to our indirect channel selling more SaaS contracts than our direct channel.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, our margins after commissions on direct sales were approximately 92% and 84%, respectively.
The increase in margins is due to the mix of sales commission rates based on each individual salespersons’ quotas and related achievement.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 50% and 55%, respectively.
The indirect channel margins for the current quarter increased compared to the same periods in the prior year due to the mix of value-added reseller (“VAR”) commission rates.
These margin calculations include only commission expense for comparative purposes and do not include other costs of license fees such as amortization of capitalized software.
Subscription Fees 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, subscription fees revenues increased by 96% due to the increased subscription fees revenues from our SCM segment which increased sales of our products on our Cloud Services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.
23   



Table of Contents 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, Cloud Services ACV increased approximately 71% to $13.2 million compared to $7.7 million in the same period of the prior year.
ACV is comprised of SaaS of $10.4 million compared to approximately $5.4 million during the same period last year and other cloud services ACV of $2.8 million compared to $2.3 million during the same period last year.
ACV is a forward-looking operating measure used by management to better understand cloud services (SaaS and other related cloud services) revenue trends within our business, as it reflects our current estimate of revenue to be generated under existing client contracts in the forward 12-month period.
Professional Services and other revenues 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, professional services and other revenues increased by 6% due to the increased services revenues from our IT Consulting segment.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in professional services and other revenues from our Supply Chain Management and Other segments.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our IT Consulting segment’s revenues increased 23% when compared to the prior year period due to an increase in project work from existing and new customers when compared to the same period last year.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our SCM segment’s revenues decreased 7% due primarily to timing of some implementation project work ending during the quarter before new projects could start.
We have observed that there is a tendency for services and other revenues, other than from IT Consulting, to lag changes in license and subscription revenues by one to three quarters, as new licenses and subscriptions in one quarter often involve implementation and consulting services in subsequent quarters, for which we recognize revenues only as we perform those services.
Maintenance Revenues  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, maintenance revenues increased 6% when compared to the same period in the prior year.
Our SCM maintenance revenue increase 7% when compared to the same period last year due primarily to our recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, improved customer retention and increased license fees in recent periods.
The SCM segment accounted for 97% and 96% of total maintenance revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Typically, our maintenance revenues have had a direct relationship to current and historic license fee revenues, since new licenses are the potential source of new maintenance customers.
GROSS MARGIN  



The following table provides both dollar amounts (in thousands) and percentage measures of gross margin:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



24   



Table of Contents 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our total gross margin percentage decreased when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to our lower margins on license fee revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by higher margins on subscription fees and maintenance revenue.
Gross Margin on License Fees  



License fee gross margin percentage for the three months ended July 31, 2018 decreased when compared to the same period in the prior year.
License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.
Gross Margin on Subscription Fees  



Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues increased from 58% for the three months ended July 31, 2017 to 66% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue, compared to a lower incremental increase in cost.
Gross Margin on Professional Services and Other  



Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues decreased from 30% for the three months ended July 31, 2017 to 21% for the three months ended July 31, 2018.
This decrease was primarily due to lower gross margins in our SCM segment services of 38% and 19% for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively due to lower billing utilization from several large projects ending during the quarter.
The Other segment remained flat at 38% for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2018.
Our IT Consulting segment services gross margin increased from 20% and 23% for the three months ended July 31, 2017 and 2018, respectively, due to higher margin projects in the current quarter.
Services and other gross margin is directly related to the level of services and other revenues.
The primary component of cost of services and other revenues is services staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
Gross Margin on Maintenance  



Maintenance gross margin percentage for the three months ended July 31, 2018 increased to 81% from 79% when compared to the same period last year due to an increase in maintenance revenue.
The primary component of cost of maintenance revenue is maintenance staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
A breakdown of the research and development costs is as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



25   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 *  



Included in cost of license fees  



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, gross product research and development costs increased 20% when compared to the same period in the previous year due partially to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and increased headcount in our SCM segment.
We expect capitalized product development costs to decrease due to timing of projects and we expect capitalized software amortization expense to be relatively stable in coming quarters.
Sales and Marketing  



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, sales and marketing expenses remained relatively flat when compared to the same period a year ago.
General and Administrative  



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, general and administrative expenses increased 19% when compared to the same period a year ago, primarily due to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and increases in salary and audit fees.
At July 31, 2018, the total number of employees was 471 compared to 378 at July 31, 2017.
Operating Income/(Loss)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 *  



includes corporate overhead and other common expenses.
Our SCM segment operating income decreased 48% in the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to lower revenues and the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income increased by 55% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 compared to same period last year primarily due to increased revenues and gross margins.
Our Other segment operating loss increased 14% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 when compared to the prior year due to an increase in corporate expenses and a decrease in revenues.
Other Income  



Other income is comprised of net interest and dividend income, rental income, exchange rate gains and losses, and realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, the increase in other income is primarily due to higher unrealized gains on investments and an increase in interest income when compared to the same period last year.
This was partially offset by an exchange rate loss of $247,000 in the current quarter when compared to an exchange rate gain of $41,000 in the same period last year.
We recorded a gain of approximately $388,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and a gain of approximately $113,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2017, from our trading securities.
26   



Table of Contents 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, our investments generated an annualized yield of approximately 1.49% and 1.47%, respectively.
We establish a deferred tax asset for the expected future benefit of net operating loss and credit carry-forwards.
During the three months ended July 31, 2018, we recorded an income tax benefit of $25,000 primarily due to a discrete stock compensation benefit of $274,000 net of normal income tax expense from operations.
Operating Pattern  



We experience an irregular pattern of quarterly operating results, caused primarily by fluctuations in both the number and size of software license contracts received and delivered from quarter to quarter and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter in accordance with our revenue recognition policies.
We expect this pattern to continue.
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL CONDITION  



Sources and Uses of Cash  



We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities.
The changes in net cash that our operating activities provide generally reflect the changes in net earnings and non-cash operating items plus the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities, such as investment trading securities, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenue.
We have no debt obligations or off-balance sheet financing arrangements, and therefore, we used no cash for debt service purposes.
The following table shows information about our cash flows and liquidity positions during the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.
You should read this table and the discussion that follows in conjunction with our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows contained in “Item 1.
Financial Statements” in Part I of this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, the net increase in cash provided by operating activities when compared to the same period last year was due primarily to the following:  



(1) a decrease in purchases of trading securities, (2) an increase in comparative decrease customer accounts receivables caused by the timing of closing customer sales and related collections, (3) higher proceeds from the maturity and sales of trading securities, (4) an increase in depreciation and amortization, (5) an increase in the comparative decrease in prepaid expenses when compared to the same period in the prior year due to the timing of purchases, and (6) an increase in stock-based compensation expense.
This increase in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by: (1) an increase in the comparative decrease in deferred revenue due to timing of revenue recognition, (2) an increase in the relative decrease in accounts payable and other accruals due to timing of payments, (3) a decrease in net earnings, (4) a higher gain on investments compared to the same period last year, and (5) a decrease in deferred income tax.
27   



Table of Contents 



The increase in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was due primarily to an increase in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by lower capitalized computer software development costs.
The decrease in cash used in financing activities compared to the prior year was due primarily to an increase in proceeds from exercise of stock options, partially offset by an increase in dividends paid.
The following table shows net changes in total cash, cash equivalents, and investments, which is one measure management uses to view net total cash generated by our activities:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Our total activities used less cash and investments during the three months ended July 31, 2018, when compared to the prior year period, primarily due to normal business operations.
Days Sales Outstanding in accounts receivable were 57 days as of July 31, 2018, compared to 56 days as of July 31, 2017.
This increase is primarily due to timing of cash collections.
Our current ratio on July 31, 2018 was 2.8 to 1 and on July 31, 2017 was2.7 to 1.
Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities.
For this reason, and because we had $87.4 million in cash and investments with no debt as of July 31, 2018, we believe that our sources of liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our presently anticipated requirements during at least the next twelve months for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate needs.
However, at some future date we may need to seek additional sources of capital to meet our requirements.
If such need arises, we may be required to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing.
We do not currently have a bank line of credit.
We can provide no assurance that bank lines of credit or other financing will be available on terms acceptable to us.
If available, such financing may result in dilution to our shareholders or higher interest expense.
On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock.
As of July 31, 2018, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.
28   



Table of Contents 



We believe the critical accounting policies listed below affect significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue Recognition.
For information with respect to revenue recognition policy, see Notes A and B of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
29   



Table of Contents 



Stock-Based Compensation.
We estimate the value of options granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Management’s judgments and assumptions related to volatility, the expected term and the forfeiture rate are made in connection with the calculation of stock compensation expense.
We periodically review all assumptions used in our stock option pricing model.
Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on the amount of stock compensation expense.
30   



Table of Contents 



 Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



None
