 Item 1.
Financial Statements  



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited)  



(in thousands, except share data)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
3   



Table of Contents 



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (unaudited)  



(in thousands, except per share data)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a)  



Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B Common Shares.
Diluted per share amounts for Class A Common Shares are shown above.
Diluted earnings per share for Class B Common Shares under the two-class method are $0.05 and $0.09 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
See Note D to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
4   



Table of Contents 



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (unaudited)  



(in thousands)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.
5   



Table of Contents 



AMERICAN SOFTWARE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements—Unaudited  



July 31, 2018  



A.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at July 31, 2018, results of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company’s results for the three months ended July 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year.
The accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2018 and the condensed consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2017 have not been revised for the effects of Topic 606 and are therefore not comparable to the July 31, 2018 period.
Principles of Consolidation  



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”).
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance.
The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method.
Under this method, the Company elected to apply the cumulative effect method to contracts that are not complete as of the adoption date.
The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit which the Company has determined to be six years, which has an impact of $1.1 million.
As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet is expected to be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.
6   



Table of Contents 



The following table presents the cumulative effect adjustments, net of income tax effects, to beginning consolidated balance sheet accounts for the new accounting standard adopted by the Company on the first day of fiscal 2019:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



7   



Table of Contents 



The following table summarizes the effects of adopting Topic 606 on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet as of July 31, 2018:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



8   



Table of Contents 



The following table summarizes the effects of adopting Topic 606 on the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended July 31, 2018:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company’s net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended July 31, 2018 did not change due to the adoption of Topic 606.
The following table summarizes the effects of adopting Topic 606 on the financial statement line items of the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended July 31, 2018:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



9   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
The ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption of the update is permitted.
The Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.
B.
We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.
The Company determines revenue recognition through the following steps:  



Step 1 – Identify the Contract with the Customer  



Step 2 – Identification of Promised Goods and Services and Evaluation of Whether the Promised Goods and Services are Distinct Performance Obligations  



Step 3 – Determining the Transaction Price  



Step 4 – Allocation of the Transaction Price to Distinct Performance Obligations  



Step 5 – Attribution of Revenue for Each Distinct Performance Obligation  



Nature of Products and Services.
Our perpetual software licenses are sold with maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Subscription Fees.
The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually.
The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.
Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.
Professional Services and other.
We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed.
10   



Table of Contents 



Maintenance.
Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.
Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer.
Maintenance terms typically range from one to three years.
Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term, and therefore, time is the best measure of progress.
Indirect Channel Revenue.
Sales Taxes.
Significant Judgments.
Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract.
We allocate the transaction price to distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price (“SSP”).
Therefore, we estimate SSP for software licenses using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price less the SSP of other products and services promised in the contract.
When performing relative selling price allocations, we use the contract price as its estimate of SSP if it falls within the Company’s range estimate of SSP since any point within the range would be a valid price point on a standalone basis.
Contract Balances.
Fees for our software licenses are generally due within 30 days of contract execution.
SaaS solutions and maintenance are typically billed in advance (on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis).
Services are typically billed as performed.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with predictable ways to purchase our software and services, not to provide or receive financing.
Additionally, we are applying the practical expedient to exclude any financing component from consideration for any contracts with payment terms of one year or less since we rarely offer terms extending beyond one year.
The consideration in our customer contracts is fixed.
That unconditional right to consideration is reflected in billed and unbilled accounts receivable in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet in accordance with ASC 606.
Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services.
We typically invoice customers for cloud subscription and support fees in advance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, with payment due at the start of the cloud subscription or support term.
During the three months ended July 31, 2018, we recognized $13 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of April 30, 2018, as adjusted for Topic 606, at the beginning of the period.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Remaining Performance Obligations.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under Topic 606.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring the promised good or service to the customer.
The Company identifies and tracks the performance obligations at contract inception so that the Company can monitor and account for the performance obligations over the life of the contract.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of orders for which products have not been delivered or services have not been performed.
As of July 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $54 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately three-quarters of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter.
11   



Table of Contents 



Disaggregated Revenue.
The Company’s revenue by geography is as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Practical Expedients and Exemptions.
There are several practical expedients and exemptions allowed under Topic 606 that impacts the timing of revenue recognition and the Company’s disclosures.
Below is a list of practical expedients the Company applied in the adoption and application of Topic 606:  



-The Company does not evaluate a contract for a significant financing component if payment is expected within one year or less from the transfer of the promised items to the customer.
-The Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it has the right to invoice for services performed (apply to time-and-material engagements).
12   



Table of Contents 



Contract costs.
The incremental costs of obtaining a contract are those that the Company incurs to obtain a contract with a customer that it would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained (for example, a sales commission).
The Company capitalizes the costs incurred to fulfill a contract only if those costs meet all of the following criteria:  



   a.
The costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the Company can specifically identify.
b.
The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.
c.  



The costs are expected to be recovered.
Certain sales commissions incurred by the Company were determined to be incremental costs to obtain the related contracts, which are deferred and amortized ratably over the economic benefit period.
These deferred commission costs are classified as current or non-current based on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense.
Total deferred commissions at July 31, 2018 and April 30, 2018 were $2.4 million and $2.5 million, respectively.
Amortization of sales commissions was $0.2 million for the three months ended July 31, 2018, which is included in sales and marketing expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of operations.
No impairment losses were recognized during the periods.
C. Declaration of Dividend Payable  



On May 16, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock.
The cash dividend is payable on August 31, 2018 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on August 17, 2018.
D. Earnings Per Common Share  



We have two classes of common stock: Class A Common Shares and Class B Common Shares.
Our Class B Common Shares are convertible into Class A Common Shares at any time, on a one-for-one basis.
Under our Articles of Incorporation, if we declare dividends, holders of Class A Common Shares shall receive a $0.05 dividend per share prior to the Class B Common Shares receiving any dividend and holders of Class A Common Shares shall receive a dividend at least equal to Class B Common Shares dividends on a per share basis.
As a result, we have computed the earnings per share in accordance with Earnings Per Share within the Presentation Topic of the FASB’s Accounting Standards Codification, which requires companies that have multiple classes of equity securities to use the “two-class” method in computing earnings per share.
For our basic earnings per share calculation, we use the “two-class” method.
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net earnings attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of shares outstanding.
This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares to Class A Common Shares.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share is similar to the calculation of basic earnings per share, except that the calculation includes the dilutive effect of the assumed exercise of options issuable under our stock incentive plans.
For our diluted earnings per share calculation for Class A Common Shares, we use the “if-converted” method.
This calculation assumes that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares (if antidilutive) and, as a result, assumes there are no holders of Class B Common Shares to participate in undistributed earnings.
For our diluted earnings per share calculation for Class B Common Shares, we use the “two-class” method.
This calculation does not assume that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares.
In addition, this method assumes the dilutive effect if Class A stock options were converted to Class A Common Shares and the undistributed earnings are allocated evenly to both Class A and B Common Shares including Class A Common Shares issued pursuant to those converted stock options.
This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares into Class A Common Shares.
The following tables set forth the computation of basic earnings per common share and diluted earnings per common share (in thousands except for per share amounts):  



13   



Table of Contents 



Basic earnings per common share:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Diluted EPS for Class A Common Shares Using the If-Converted Method  



Three Months Ended July 31, 2018  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Three Months Ended July 31, 2017  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Diluted EPS for Class B Common Shares Using the Two-Class Method  



Three Months Ended July 31, 2018  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



14   



Table of Contents 



Three Months Ended July 31, 2017  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 *  



Amounts adjusted for rounding  



For the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, we excluded options to purchase 130 and 1,024,917 Class A Common Shares, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per Class A Common Shares.
We excluded these option share amounts because the exercise prices of those options were greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Shares during the applicable period.
As of July 31, 2018, we had a total of 3,535,823 options outstanding and, as of July 31, 2017, we had a total of 3,833,630 options outstanding.
E. Stock-Based Compensation  



During the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, we granted options for 557,000 and 872,000 shares of common stock, respectively.
The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The forfeiture rates are estimated using historical data.
We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $398,000 and $316,000, and income tax excess benefits of approximately $274,000 and shortfall of $33,000 from option exercises during the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
We record stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period directly to additional paid-in capital.
During the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued 295,813 and 101,516 shares of common stock, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 based on market value at the exercise dates was approximately $1.7 million and $207,000, respectively.
As of July 31, 2018, unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards approximated $4.4 million, which we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 1.96 years.
F. Fair Value of Financial Instruments  



We measure our investments based on a fair value hierarchy disclosure framework that prioritizes and ranks the level of market price observability used in measuring assets and liabilities at fair value.
This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels as follows:  



   •    



Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.
•    



Level 2—Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets.
•    



Level 3—Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.
The following is a general description of the valuation methodologies we use for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, including the general classification of such assets and liabilities pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
Cash Equivalents—Cash equivalents include investments in government obligation based money-market funds, other money market instruments and interest-bearing deposits with initial terms of three months or less.
The fair value of cash equivalents approximates its carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
15   



Table of Contents 



Marketable Securities—Marketable securities utilizing Level 1 inputs include active exchange-traded equity securities and equity index funds, and most U.S. Government debt securities, as these securities all have quoted prices in active markets.
Marketable securities utilizing Level 2 inputs include municipal bonds.
We value these securities using market-corroborated pricing or other models that use observable inputs such as yield curves.
The following tables present our assets and liabilities that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of July 31, 2018 and April 30, 2018, respectively, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques we used to determine such fair value (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



G. Stock Repurchases  



On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock.
H. Comprehensive Income  



We have not included condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements since comprehensive income and net earnings presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations would be substantially the same.
I.
Industry Segments  



FASB ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments.
Operating segments are defined as components of a public entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision makers (“CODMs”), or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
Our CODMs are our Principal Executive Officer (“PEO”) and President.
We updated our operating segments to reflect the fact that we provide our software solutions through three major operating segments, which are further broken down into a total of six major product and service groups.
The three operating segments are (1) Supply Chain Management (“SCM”), (2) Information Technology (“IT”) Consulting and (3) Other.
16   



Table of Contents 



The SCM segment consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain operations to gain a competitive advantage.
Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) Demand Management, Inc (“DMI”), which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo Business Inteligence (“Halo”), which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance.
Previously, we maintained three operating segments: (1) SCM, (2) IT and (3) Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”).
As a result of the organizational realignment during the third quarter fiscal 2018, NGC was repositioned out of the ERP segment and into the SCM segment.
There were no changes to the IT segment.
Certain prior year amounts have been recast to conform to fiscal 2019 presentation.
All of our revenues are derived from external customers.
We do not have any inter-segment revenue.
Consequently, it is not practical to show these items by operating segment.
In the following table, we have broken down the intersegment transactions applicable to the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



17   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 *  



fiscal 2018 recast to adjust for corporate overhead and other common expenses, which were no longer allocated starting fiscal 2019.
Major Customer  



No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.
We have historically not been required to make any payments under such indemnifications.
Additionally, we are involved in various claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
The cash dividend is payable on December 5, 2018 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on November 19, 2018.
18   



Table of Contents 



 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings  



We are not currently involved in legal proceedings requiring disclosure under this item.
Item 1A.
