Item 3.
Primary currencies include euros, British pounds, Australian dollars, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, and Swedish krona.
We monitor currency volatility throughout the year.
To mitigate our foreign currency risk resulting from our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets, liabilities, and earnings and our foreign currency risk related to functional currency-equivalent cash flows resulting from our intercompany transactions, we periodically enter into currency derivative contracts, principally forward contracts.
These forward contracts generally have a maturity of less than one year.
The counterparties for our currency derivative contracts are large and reputable commercial or investment banks.
The fair values of our foreign currency contracts are estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period.
We do not hold or purchase any foreign currency forward contracts for trading or speculative purposes.
Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges (“Cash Flow Hedges”)



The total gross notional amounts and fair values of our Cash Flow Hedges are as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At March 31, 2019, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of nine months or less.
Additionally, $4 million of net realized but unrecognized gains are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at March 31, 2019 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues.
Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The amount of pre-tax net realized gains (losses) associated with our Cash Flow Hedges that were reclassified out of “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” and into earnings was as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



50

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges



The total gross notional amounts and fair values of our foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges are as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, pre-tax net gains (losses) associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material.
In the absence of hedging activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10% would have resulted in a theoretical decline of our net income of approximately $41 million.
This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; however, all foreign currency exchange rates do not always move in this manner and actual results may differ materially.
Interest Rate Risk



Our exposure to market rate risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio, as our outstanding debt is all at fixed rates.
Our investment portfolio consists primarily of money market funds and government securities with high credit quality and short average maturities.
Because short-term securities mature relatively quickly and must be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of cash, cash equivalents, or short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities.
Conversely, the fair value of such a portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities.
At March 31, 2019, our $4.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents was comprised primarily of money market funds.
The Company has determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio as of March 31, 2019, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to the Company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity as of that date.
51
