Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 



Business Overview 



Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992.
In connection with the 2008 business combination (the “Business Combination”) by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc. (“Vivendi Games”), then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” 



Our Segments 



As part of the continued implementation of our esports strategy, we instituted changes to our internal organization and reporting structure during 2017 such that the Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business operates as a division of Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”).
Commencing with the second quarter of 2017, MLG, which was previously a separate operating segment, became a component of the Blizzard operating segment.
MLG is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League™, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
Based on our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments, as follows: 



(i) Activision Publishing, Inc. 



Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”), is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Activision’s key product franchises include: Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms; and Destiny, an online universe of first-person action gameplay (which we call a “shared-world shooter”) for the console and PC platforms.
36 



Table of Contents 



(ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. 



Blizzard is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content, along with Activision’s Destiny 2 PC content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
As noted above, Blizzard also includes the activities of our MLG business, which is responsible for the operations of the Overwatch League, along with other esports events, and will also continue to serve as a multi-platform network for other Activision Blizzard esports content.
Blizzard’s key product franchises include: World of Warcraft®, a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game for PC; StarCraft®, a real-time strategy franchise for the PC; Diablo®, an action role-playing franchise for the PC and console platforms; Hearthstone®, an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; Heroes of the Storm®, a free-to-play team brawler for PC; and Overwatch®, a team-based first-person shooter for the PC and console platforms.
(iii) King Digital Entertainment 



King is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Google Inc.’s (“Google”) Android and Apple Inc.’s (“Apple”) iOS.
King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook.
King’s games are free to play, however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency the players purchase or directly using real currency.
King’s key product franchises, all of which are for the mobile and PC platforms, include: Candy Crush™, which features “match three” games; Farm Heroes™, which also features “match three” games; and Bubble Witch™, which features “bubble shooter” games.
Other 



We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: 



· the Activision Blizzard Studios (“Studios”) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in October 2017, released the second season of the animated TV series Skylanders™ Academy on Netflix; and 



· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Prior period results have not been restated to reflect this change in accounting standards.
Further information about our adoption of the new standard is provided in Notes 2 and 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018: 



· consolidated net revenues increased 14% to $1.97 billion, while consolidated operating income increased 21% to $595 million, as compared to consolidated net revenues of $1.73 billion and consolidated operating income of $493 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 



· revenues from digital online channels were $1.46 billion, or 74% of consolidated net revenues, as compared to $1.39 billion, or 80% of consolidated net revenues, for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 



37 



Table of Contents 



· operating margin was 30.3%, as compared with 28.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 



· cash flows from operating activities were $529 million, an increase of 29%, as compared to $411 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017; 



· consolidated net income increased 17% to $500 million, as compared to $426 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017; and 



· diluted earnings per common share increased 16% to $0.65, as compared to $0.56 for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Since certain of our games are hosted online or include significant online functionality that represents a separate performance obligation, we defer the transaction price allocable to the online functionality from the sale of these games and recognize the attributable revenues over the relevant estimated service periods, which are generally less than a year.
Content Release and Event Highlights 



During the three months ended March 31, 2018, Activision released The Resistance, the first downloadable content pack for Call of Duty: WWII.
Additionally, the Overwatch League, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, started its inaugural regular season in January 2018.
The Overwatch League had more than 10 million unique viewers in its first week.
Operating Metrics 



The following operating metrics are key performance indicators that we use to evaluate our business.
Net Bookings 



We monitor net bookings as a key operating metric in evaluating the performance of our business.
Net bookings is defined as the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period, and includes license fees, merchandise, and publisher incentives, among others.
Net bookings is equal to net revenues excluding the impact from deferrals.
Net bookings were as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The increase in net bookings was primarily due to: 



· higher net bookings from Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare (which, when referred to herein, is inclusive of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered), the comparable 2016 title; 



· higher net bookings from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features; and 



· higher net bookings from World of Warcraft, primarily due to net bookings associated with in-game content, such as the character level boost, delivered to customers upon pre-purchase of World of Warcraft: Battle for AzerothTM.
The increase was partially offset by lower net bookings from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
38 



Table of Contents 



Monthly Active Users 



We monitor monthly active users (“MAUs”) as a key measure of the overall size of our user base.
MAUs are the number of individuals who accessed a particular game in a given month.
We calculate average MAUs in a period by adding the total number of MAUs in each of the months in a given period and dividing that total by the number of months in the period.
An individual who accesses two of our games would be counted as two users.
In addition, due to technical limitations, for Activision and King, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would be counted as two users.
For Blizzard, an individual who accesses the same game on two platforms or devices in the relevant period would generally be counted as a single user.
The number of MAUs for a given period can be significantly impacted by the timing of new content releases, since new releases may cause a temporary surge in MAUs.
The following table details our average MAUs on a sequential quarterly basis for each of our reportable segments (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Average MAUs decreased by 11 million, or 3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The decrease in King’s average MAUs is due to minor decreases across franchises and less engaged users leaving the network.
The decrease in Activision’s average MAUs is due primarily to lower MAUs for Destiny 2.
Average MAUs decreased by 57 million, or 13%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The decrease in King’s average MAUs is due to decreases across King’s franchises that are largely attributable to the maturity of King’s titles and less engaged users leaving the network.
Management’s Overview of Business Trends 



Interactive Entertainment and Mobile Gaming Growth 



Our business participates in the global interactive entertainment industry.
Games have become an increasingly popular form of entertainment, and we estimate the total industry has grown, on average, 18% over the last three years.
The industry continues to benefit from additional players entering the market as interactive entertainment becomes more common place across age groups and as more developing regions gain access to this form of entertainment.
Further, the wide adoption of smart phones globally and the free-to-play business model on those platforms has increased the total addressable market for gaming significantly by introducing gaming to new age groups and new regions and allowing gaming to occur more widely outside the home.
Mobile gaming is estimated to be larger than console and PC gaming and continues to grow at a significant rate.
King is a leading developer of mobile and free-to-play games and our other business units have mobile efforts underway that present the opportunity for us to expand the reach of, and drive additional player investment from, our franchises.
These opportunities include esports, film and television, and consumer products.
As part of our efforts to take advantage of the esports opportunity, during 2017 we completed the sale of 12 teams for the Overwatch League, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and the inaugural season is underway.
Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Franchises 



The concentration of retail revenues among key titles has continued as a trend in the overall interactive entertainment industry.
According to The NPD Group, the top 10 titles accounted for 36% of the retail sales in the U.S. interactive entertainment industry in 2017.
For example, the Call of Duty, Candy Crush, World of Warcraft, and Overwatch franchises, collectively, accounted for 66% of our consolidated net revenues—and a significantly higher percentage of our operating income—for 2017.
The top titles in the industry are also becoming more consistent as players and revenues concentrate more heavily in established franchises.
The top 10 console franchises in 2017 were all established franchises.
Similarly, according to U.S. rankings for the Apple App Store and Google Play store per App Annie Intelligence, as of December 2017, the top 10 mobile games have an average tenure of 22 months.
In 2014, we released Hearthstone and Destiny, in 2015, we released Heroes of the Storm, and in 2016, we released Overwatch.
Additionally, to diversify our portfolio of key franchises and increase our presence in the mobile market, on February 23, 2016, we completed the acquisition of King.
Recurring Revenue Business Models 



Increased consumer online connectivity has allowed us to offer players new investment opportunities and to shift our business further towards a more consistently recurring and year-round model.
Offering downloadable content and microtransactions, in addition to full games, allows our players to access and invest in new content throughout the year.
This incremental content not only provides additional high-margin revenues, it can also increase player engagement.
Also, mobile games, and free-to-play games more broadly, are generally less seasonal.
40 



Table of Contents 



Consolidated Statements of Operations Data 



The following table sets forth condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods indicated in dollars and as a percentage of total net revenues, except for cost of revenues, which are presented as a percentage of associated revenues (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Consolidated Net Revenues 



The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues and the increase (decrease) in deferred net revenues recognized (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Consolidated Net Revenues 



The increase in consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher revenues recognized from Activision of $290 million, primarily due to (1) higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016 and (2) higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, the comparable 2016 title, partially offset by lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November 2016, as compared to Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title; and 



41 



Table of Contents 



· higher revenues from King of $68 million, primarily driven by the Candy Crush franchise’s increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from Blizzard of $103 million, primarily due to (1) lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016, and (2) lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft, driven by the release of World of Warcraft: LegionTM in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2017.
Change in Deferred Revenues Recognized 



The increase in net deferred revenues recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher net deferred revenues recognized for Activision of $193 million, primarily due to higher net deferred revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016.
The increase was partially offset by lower net deferred revenues recognized from Blizzard of $140 million, primarily due to a net deferral of revenues for World of Warcraft, driven by revenues associated with in-game content delivered to customers upon pre-purchase of World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth in the first quarter of 2018 being deferred and recognized over an estimated service period, as compared to net deferred revenues recognized in the prior period from World of Warcraft: Legion, which was released in August 2016.
Foreign Exchange Impact 



Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $110 million on Activision Blizzard’s consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.
Operating Segment Results 



Currently, we have three reportable segments.
Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”).
The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto.
Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organization structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information.
We do not aggregate operating segments.
Our MLG business, which was previously included in the non-reportable “Other segments,” is now presented within the Blizzard reportable segment.
Prior period amounts have been revised to reflect this change.
This change had no impact on consolidated net revenues or operating income.
43 



Table of Contents 



Segment Net Revenues 



Activision 



The increase in Activision’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher revenues from Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, the comparable 2016 title; 



· revenues from the continued strength of Call of Duty: Black Ops III, as compared to prior catalog releases; and 



· revenues from Crash Bandicoot N. Sane Trilogy, which was released in June 2017.
The increase was partially offset by: 



· lower revenues from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November 2016, as compared to Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title; and 



· lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise, as the last title release was in 2016.
Blizzard 



The increase in Blizzard’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher revenues from World of Warcraft, primarily due to revenues associated with in-game content delivered to customers upon pre-purchase of World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth; and 



· revenues from the Overwatch League, which started its inaugural regular season in January 2018.
The increase was partially offset by lower revenues from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
King 



The increase in King’s net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise’s increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
Segment Income from Operations 



Activision 



The increase in Activision’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to the higher revenues, as discussed above, and lower product costs from lower sales of our previously released titles for the Skylanders and Guitar Hero franchises, which typically had higher product costs per unit due to the included physical items (i.e.
toys and guitars).
This was partially offset by higher personnel and external developer costs to support existing and upcoming title releases.
This was partially offset by higher capitalization of software development costs due to the timing of the game development cycle.
King 



The increase in King’s operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to the higher revenues, as discussed above.
The increase was partially offset by higher software development costs.
Foreign Exchange Impact 



Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $72 million on reportable segment net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the same period in the previous year.
The changes are primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.
Consolidated Results 



Net Revenues by Distribution Channel 



The following table details our consolidated net revenues by distribution channel (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) Net revenues from “Digital online channels” include revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products, as well as licensing royalties.
Digital Online Channel Net Revenues 



The increase in net revenues from digital online channels for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016; 



· higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features; and 



45 



Table of Contents 



· higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, the comparable 2016 title.
The increase was partially offset by: 



· lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016; 



· lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November 2016, as compared to Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title; and 



· lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft, driven by the release of World of Warcraft: LegionTM in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2017.
Retail Channel Net Revenues 



The increase in net revenues from retail channels for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, the comparable 2016 title; and 



· higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016.
The increase was partially offset by: 



· lower revenues from the Skylanders franchise, as the last title release was in 2016; and 



· lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
Net Revenues by Geographic Region 



The following table details our consolidated net revenues by geographic region (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) Consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions.
46 



Table of Contents 



Americas 



The increase in net revenues from the Americas region for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016; 



· higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, the comparable 2016 title; and 



· higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November 2016, as compared to the performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title.
EMEA 



The increase in net revenues in the EMEA region for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, the comparable 2016 title; 



· higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016; and 



· higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise due to increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
Asia Pacific 



The decrease in net revenues in the Asia Pacific region for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016.
The decrease was partially offset by higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016.
47 



Table of Contents 



Console 



The increase in net revenues from the console platform for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher revenues recognized from Call of Duty: WWII, which was released in November 2017, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, the comparable 2016 title; 



· higher revenues recognized from the Destiny franchise, driven by the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, with no comparable release in 2016; and 



· higher revenues recognized from the continued strength of Call of Duty: Black Ops III, as compared to prior catalog releases.
The increase was partially offset by lower revenues recognized from Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare, which was released in November 2016, as compared to the performance of Call of Duty: Black Ops III, the comparable 2015 title.
PC 



The decrease in net revenues from the PC platform for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· lower revenues recognized from Overwatch, which was released in May 2016; and 



· lower revenues recognized from World of Warcraft, driven by the release of World of Warcraft: Legion in August 2016, with no comparable release in 2017.
The decrease was partially offset by revenues recognized for Destiny 2, which was released on the PC platform in October 2017, with no comparable release in 2016.
Mobile and Ancillary 



The increase in net revenues from mobile and ancillary for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher revenues from the Candy Crush franchise’s increased monetization, primarily through in-game events and features.
48 



Table of Contents 



Costs and Expenses 



Cost of Revenues 



The following table detail the components of cost of revenues in dollars and as a percentage of associated net revenues (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cost of Revenues—Product Sales: 



The increase in product costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher product costs of $18 million driven by the increase in product sales associated with the Call of Duty and Destiny franchises, partially offset by lower product costs from lower sales of our previously-released titles for the Skylanders and Guitar Hero franchises, which typically had higher product costs per unit due to the included physical items (i.e.
toys and guitars).
The increase in software royalties, amortization, and intellectual property licenses related to product sales for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher software amortization and royalties from Activision of $68 million, driven by the Destiny franchise, primarily due to the release of Destiny 2 in September 2017, partially offset by lower software amortization associated with Call of Duty: WWII, as compared to Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare.
Cost of Revenues—Subscription, Licensing, and Other Revenues: 



The increase in game operations and distribution costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to: 



· higher digital storefront fees (e.g.
Product Development (amounts in millions) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



49 



Table of Contents 



The increase in product development costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to a $59 million increase in personnel and external developer costs to support existing and upcoming title releases.
Sales and Marketing (amounts in millions) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018, were comparable to the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a $39 million increase in marketing spending and personnel costs, primarily associated with the Candy Crush franchise and the Overwatch League, which started its inaugural regular season in January 2018, partially offset by marketing for the Bubble Witch franchise, as Bubble Witch 3 Saga was released during the first quarter of 2017, with no comparable release in 2018.
The increase was partially offset by a $33 million decrease in amortization associated with the customer base intangible asset acquired in the acquisition of King, as the asset was fully amortized during the period.
Interest and Other Expense (Income), Net (amounts in millions) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The decrease in interest and other expense (income), net, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, was primarily due to higher interest income of $11 million from our cash and cash equivalents as compared to the prior period.
On December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued SAB 118, which provides guidance on how to account for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act under ASC 740.
SAB 118 enables companies to record a provisional amount for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act based on a reasonable estimate, subject to adjustment during a measurement period of up to one year, until accounting is complete.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no changes made to the provisional amounts that were recorded during the fourth quarter of 2017.
Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



We believe our ability to generate cash flows from operating activities is one of our fundamental financial strengths.
Our primary sources of liquidity, which are available to us to fund cash outflows such as our anticipated dividend payments, share repurchases, and scheduled debt maturities, include our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows provided by operating activities.
Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality.
These transactions may result in future cash proceeds or payments.
Sources of Liquidity (amounts in millions) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 



The primary driver of net cash flows associated with our operating activities is the collection of customer receivables generated from the sale of our products and services.
These collections are typically partially offset by: payments to vendors for the manufacturing, distribution, and marketing of our products; payments for customer service support for our consumers; payments to third-party developers and intellectual property holders; payments for interest on our debt; payments for software development; payments for tax liabilities; and payments to our workforce.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018, was $529 million, as compared to $411 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to higher net income in the first quarter of 2018, as compared to the first quarter of 2017, along with larger adjustments to net income for non-cash charges, primarily associated with deferred income taxes.
The increase was partially offset by changes in our working capital due to the timing of collections and payments.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities 



The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with investing activities typically include capital expenditures, purchases and sales of investments, changes in restricted cash balances, and cash used for acquisitions.
52 



Table of Contents 



Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018, was $51 million, as compared net cash used in investing activities of $27 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The increase in the cash used in investing activities was primarily due to: 



· purchases of available-for-sale investments of $20 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, with no comparable transaction in the prior period; and 



· capital expenditures of $31 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $21 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities 



The primary drivers of net cash flows associated with financing activities typically include the proceeds from, and repayments of, our long-term debt and transactions involving our common stock, including the issuance of shares of common stock to employees upon the exercise of stock options, as well as the payment of dividends.
Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018, was $8 million, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $404 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The change was primarily attributed to our debt financing activities in the prior year.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, we had net debt repayments of $500 million, with no comparable repayment activity for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
This impact was partially offset by lower proceeds from stock option exercises and higher tax payments made for net share settlements on restricted stock units of $47 million and $39 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $109 million and $13 million, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes 



Changes in foreign exchange rates had a positive impact of $18 million and a positive impact of $19 million on our cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The change was primarily due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the euro and the British pound.
Debt 



As of both March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our total outstanding debt was $4.4 billion, bearing interest at a weighted average rate of 3.64% and 3.58%, respectively.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there was no activity associated with our debt instruments except for normal recurring interest payments.
On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized repayments of up to $1.8 billion of the company’s outstanding debt during 2018.
53 



Table of Contents 



A summary of our outstanding debt is as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Refer to Note 10 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further disclosures regarding our debt obligations.
Dividends 



On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.34 per common share.
Such dividend is payable on May 9, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2018.
Capital Expenditures 



For the year ending December 31, 2018, we anticipate total capital expenditures of approximately $140 million, primarily for leasehold improvements, computer hardware, and software purchases.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, capital expenditures were $31 million.
54 



Table of Contents 



Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”).
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, there were no significant changes to the above critical accounting policies and estimates, with the exception of our adoption of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606: Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



Below are recently issued accounting pronouncements that were most significant to our accounting policy activities.
For a detailed discussion of all relevant recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 



Revenue Recognition 



As discussed in Note 2 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, in May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition and on January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (the “new revenue accounting standard”), utilizing the modified retrospective method.
Additionally, we elected to apply the new revenue accounting standard only to contracts not completed as of the adoption date.
For contracts that were modified before the period of adoption, we elected to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications when (i) identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, (ii) determining the transaction price, and (iii) allocating the transaction price to the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations.
We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue accounting standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The cumulative effect adjustment recorded to our retained earnings at January 1, 2018 was $88 million.
Under the prior accounting standards, VSOE for undelivered elements was required.
This requirement was eliminated under the new revenue accounting standard.
Accordingly, we are required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of this software, as compared to recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated service period, as previously required.
Many of our other franchises, such as Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush, are online hosted arrangements, and the accounting for our sales of these games under the new standard is relatively unchanged; and 



· The accounting for certain of our software licensing arrangements.
While the impacts of the new revenue accounting standard may differ on a contract-by-contract basis (as the actual revenue recognition treatment required under the standard will depend on contract-specific terms), the new revenue accounting standard generally results in earlier revenue recognition for these arrangements.
Statement of Cash Flows-Restricted Cash 



In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The new standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain any change during the period in total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash.
Therefore, restricted cash will be included with “Cash and cash equivalents” when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and should be applied retrospectively.
Early adoption is permitted.
We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and applied the standard retrospectively for all periods presented.
The application of this new standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, there will be a significant impact to the consolidated statements of cash flows for 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6 billion movement in restricted cash resulting from the transfer of cash into escrow at December 31, 2015 to facilitate the acquisition of King, and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 to complete the acquisition.
Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance will be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, will not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows.
Derivatives and Hedging 



In August 2017, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for derivatives and hedging.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
We adopted the standard during the first quarter of 2018.
The adoption of the standard did not have a material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
56 



Table of Contents 



Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted 



Leases 



In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases.
The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic.
The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for its leases.
The liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments.
The asset will be based on the liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received, and any prepaid lease payments.
Operating leases will result in a straight-line expense pattern, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern.
Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting.
The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, with certain transition practical expedients available to provide relief in adopting the new standard.
We do not plan to early adopt this new standard but do expect to elect and apply the available transition practical expedients upon adoption.
