Item 1.
Financial Statements



ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited)



(Amounts in millions, except share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited)



(Amounts in millions, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited)



(Amounts in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
6

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



(Amounts in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Excludes deferral and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
(2)Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018



(Unaudited)



(Amounts and shares in millions, except per share data) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
8

ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



(Unaudited)



1.
Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation



Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”s), and mobile devices.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A., and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi S.A., we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.



Our Segments



Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments, as follows:



(i) Activision Publishing, Inc.



Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Activision’s key product franchise is Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms.
In 2010, Activision entered into an exclusive relationship with Bungie, Inc. (“Bungie”) to publish games in the Destiny franchise.
Effective December 31, 2018, Activision and Bungie mutually agreed to terminate their publishing relationship related to the Destiny franchise.
As part of this termination, Activision agreed to transfer its publishing rights for the Destiny franchise to Bungie in exchange for cash and Bungie’s assumption of on-going customer obligations of Activision.
Activision no longer has any material rights or obligations related to the Destiny franchise.
(ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc.



Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content and selected Activision content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of the Overwatch LeagueTM, the first major global professional esports league with city-based teams, and our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
Blizzard’s key product franchises include: World of Warcraft®, a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game for the PC platform; StarCraft®, a real-time strategy franchise for the PC platform; Diablo®, an action role-playing franchise for the PC and console platforms; Hearthstone®, an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; and Overwatch®, a team-based first-person shooter for the PC and console platforms.
(iii) King Digital Entertainment



King Digital Entertainment (“King”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, primarily on the mobile platform, including for Google Inc.’s Android and Apple Inc.’s iOS.
King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook.
King’s games are free to play; however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or real currency, and we continue to focus on in-game advertising as a growing source of additional revenue.
9

King’s key product franchises, all of which are for the mobile and PC platforms, include: Candy Crush™, which features “match three” games; Farm Heroes™, which also features “match three” games; and Bubble Witch™, which features “bubble shooter” games.
Other



We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Basis of Consolidation and Presentation



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we identified an error principally related to the initial recognition of global intangible low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries income taxes which should have been recorded in the three months and year ended December 31, 2018.
Income tax expense for the three months and year ended December 31, 2018 should have been reduced by $35 million.
This amount is not material to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, and we will revise our 2018 consolidated financial statements to correct this matter in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2019.
Our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018, as presented in this Form 10-Q, has been revised to reflect the correction of this error.
Supplemental Cash Flow Information



As of March 31, 2019 and 2018, we had the following amounts associated with investing and financing activities recorded within “Accrued expenses and other liabilities”:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10

The beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows included restricted cash amounts as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 



Adoption of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 842: Leases 



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic.
The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset for its leases.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted the new lease accounting standard.
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure to include our accounting policy for leases under the new standard.
Refer to Note 3 for information about the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Leases



We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at contract inception.
In certain of our lease arrangements, primarily those related to our data center arrangements, judgment is required in determining if a contract contains a lease.
For these arrangements, there is judgment in evaluating if the arrangement provides us with an asset that is physically distinct, or that represents substantially all of the capacity of the asset, and if we have the right to direct the use of the asset.
Lease assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of future lease payments over the lease term at the commencement date.
Included in the lease liability are future lease payments that are fixed, in-substance fixed, or payments based on an index or rate known at the commencement date of the lease.
Variable lease payments are recognized as lease expenses as incurred, and generally relate to variable payments made based on the level of services provided by the landlords of our leases.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to commencement, initial direct costs incurred, and lease incentives received.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we generally use our incremental borrowing rate in determining the present value of future payments.
The incremental borrowing rate represents the rate required to borrow funds over a similar term to purchase the leased asset, and is based on the information available at the commencement date of the lease.
For leased assets with similar lease terms and asset type we applied a portfolio approach in determining a single incremental borrowing rate to apply to the leased assets.
In determining our lease liability, the lease term includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such option.
For operating leases, the lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance lease assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the asset, not to exceed the length of the lease, with interest expense associated with finance lease liabilities recorded using the effective interest method.
Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet, and we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components.
For our real estate, server and data center, and event production and broadcasting equipment leases, we elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
In all other lease arrangements, we account for lease and non-lease components separately.
Additionally, for certain leases that have a group of leased assets with similar characteristics in size and composition, we may apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities.
11

3.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



Leases



As noted in Note 2 above, we adopted the new lease accounting standard effective January 1, 2019.
We elected to apply an optional adoption method, which uses the effective date as the initial date of application on transition with no retrospective adjustments to prior periods.
Additionally, we elected to apply the package of transition practical expedients which permitted us to, among other things, (1) not reassess if existing contracts contained leases under the new lease accounting standard and (2) carry forward our historical lease classifications.
The impact from the adoption of the new lease accounting standard to our condensed consolidated balance sheet at January 1, 2019, was as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated income statements or condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



Goodwill



In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance that eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Instead, if an entity forgoes a Step 0 test, an entity will be required to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit, as determined in Step 1 from the goodwill impairment test, with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge, if any, for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be applied prospectively.
Early adoption is permitted.
The effect of adoption should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.
Cloud Computing Arrangements 



In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance related to a customer’s accounting for implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement (i.e.
hosting arrangement) that is a service contract.
The new guidance requires customers to capitalize implementation costs for these arrangements by applying the same criteria that are utilized for existing internal-use software guidance.
The capitalized costs are required to be amortized over the associated term of the arrangement, generally on a straight-line basis, with amortization of these costs presented in the same financial statement line item as other costs associated with the arrangement.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and can be applied retrospectively or prospectively.
Early adoption is permitted.
12

4.
Inventories, Net



Inventories, net, consist of the following (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, inventory reserves were $20 million and $22 million, respectively.
5.
Intangible Assets, Net



Intangible assets, net, consist of the following (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)At March 31, 2019, the balances of the customer base intangible assets have been removed as such amounts were fully amortized in the prior year.
13

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $55 million and $119 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
At March 31, 2019, future amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is estimated as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7.
Goodwill



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment are as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



8.
Fair Value Measurements



The FASB literature regarding fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value.
This hierarchy requires entities to maximize the use of “observable inputs” and minimize the use of “unobservable inputs.” The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows:



•Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;



•Level 2—Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and



•Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.
14

Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis



The table below segregates all of our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis into the most appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine the fair value at the measurement date (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



15

Foreign Currency Forward Contracts



Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges (“Cash Flow Hedges”)



The total gross notional amounts and fair values of our Cash Flow Hedges are as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At March 31, 2019, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of nine months or less.
Additionally, $4 million of net realized but unrecognized gains are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at March 31, 2019 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues.
Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis



We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis.
16

9.
Deferred revenues



We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of the fulfillment of our associated performance obligations.
The opening balance of deferred revenues as of January 1, 2019 and the ending balance as of March 31, 2019, were $1.6 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, including our current and non-current balances.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, $0.9 billion of revenues were recognized that were included in the deferred revenues balance at the beginning of the period.
We expect to recognize approximately $1.1 billion over the next 12 months, $0.4 billion in the subsequent 12 month period, and the remainder thereafter.
This balance does not include an estimate for variable consideration arising from sales-based royalty license revenue in excess of the contractual minimum guarantee.
10.
Leases



Our lease arrangements are primarily for: (1) corporate, administrative, and development studio offices; (2) data centers and server equipment; and (3) live event production equipment.
Our existing leases have remaining lease terms ranging from one to 10 years.
In certain instances, such leases include one or more options to renew, with renewal terms that generally extend the lease term by one to five years for each option.
The exercise of lease renewal options is generally at our sole discretion.
Additionally, the majority of our leases are classified as operating leases; our financing leases are not material.
Information related to our operating leases are as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Future undiscounted lease payments for our operating lease liabilities, and a reconciliation of these payments to our operating lease liabilities at March 31, 2019, are as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



17

Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2019, were as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Future minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2018, prior to our adoption of the new lease accounting standard, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11.
Debt



Credit Facilities



As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $1.5 billion available under a revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”) pursuant to a credit agreement entered into on October 11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”).
To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver, and we were in compliance with the terms of the Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2019.
Refer to Note 13 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further details regarding the Credit Agreement, its key terms, and previous amendments made to it.
Unsecured Senior Notes



At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had the following unsecured senior notes outstanding:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the Revolver described above.
The Notes are not secured and are effectively junior to any of the Company’s existing and future indebtedness that is secured to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such indebtedness.
We were in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of March 31, 2019.
18

Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2021 Notes and the 2026 Notes, and payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year for the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had accrued interest payable of $14 million and $15 million, respectively, related to the Notes.
Refer to Note 13 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 for further details regarding key terms under our indentures that govern the Notes.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, interest expense was $21 million and $40 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $1 million and $2 million, respectively.
A summary of our outstanding debt is as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of March 31, 2019, the scheduled maturities and contractual principal repayments of our debt for each of the five succeeding years and thereafter are as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

With the exception of the 2047 Notes, using Level 2 inputs (i.e., observable market prices in less-than-active markets) at March 31, 2019, the carrying values of the Notes approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to the current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods.
At March 31, 2019, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair value of the 2047 Notes was $378 million.
Using Level 2 inputs at December 31, 2018, the carrying values of the 2021 Notes and the 2022 Notes approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to the current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods.
At December 31, 2018, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2026 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and the 2047 Notes were $800 million, $376 million, and $360 million, respectively.
12.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)



The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



13.
Operating Segments and Geographic Region



Currently, we have three reportable segments—Activision, Blizzard, and King.
Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”).
The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto.
Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organizational structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information.
We do not aggregate operating segments.
(3)Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.
(4)Reflects restructuring initiatives, primarily severance and other restructuring-related costs.
Net revenues by distribution channel, including a reconciliation to each of our reportable segment’s revenues, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, were as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



22

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Net revenues from “Digital online channels” include revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products, as well as licensing royalties.
(3)Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.
23

Geographic information presented below is based on the location of the paying customer.
Net revenues by geographic region, including a reconciliation to each of our reportable segment’s net revenues, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, were as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



24

(1)“EMEA” consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 49% and 47% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% and 11% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018.
(3)Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.
Long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)The only long-lived assets that we classify by region are our long-term tangible fixed assets, which consist of property, plant, and equipment assets; all other long-term assets are not allocated by location.
26

14.
Restructuring



On February 12, 2019, the Company committed to a Board-authorized restructuring plan under which the Company plans to refocus its resources on its largest opportunities and to remove unnecessary levels of complexity and duplication from certain parts of the business.
More specifically, we are:



•increasing our investment in development for our largest, internally-owned franchises—across upfront releases, in-game content, mobile, and geographic expansion;



•reducing certain non-development and administrative-related costs across our business; and



•integrating our global and regional sales and “go-to-market,” partnerships, and sponsorships capabilities across the business, which we believe will enable us to provide better opportunities for talent, and greater expertise and scale on behalf of our business units.
The restructuring actions are in process and are largely expected to be completed by the end of 2019, although the timing of cash payments may continue into 2020.
Also includes restructuring charges for our corporate and administrative functions.
We expect to incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $150 million in 2019 associated with the restructuring plan.
These charges will primarily relate to severance (approximately 60% of the aggregate charge), including, in many cases, amounts above those that are legally required, facilities costs (approximately 15% of the aggregate charge), and asset write-downs and other costs (approximately 25% of the aggregate charge).
A majority of the total pre-tax charge associated with the restructuring will be paid in cash using amounts on hand and the outlays are expected to be largely incurred throughout 2019.
27

The total expected pre-tax restructuring charges related to the restructuring plan by segment, inclusive of amounts already incurred, are presented below (amounts in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Includes charges related to operating segments managed outside the reportable segments, including our studios and distribution businesses.
Also includes restructuring charges for our corporate and administrative functions.
15.
Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change.
The effective tax rate of 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, is consistent with the U.S. statutory rate of 21%.
The STA decision described the basis for issuing a transfer pricing assessment of approximately 3.5kr billion (approximately $400 million), primarily concerning an alleged intercompany asset transfer.
We disagree with the STA’s decision and intend to vigorously contest it.
We plan to pursue all remedies available to us to successfully resolve the matter, including administrative remedies with the STA, multilateral procedures with other relevant taxing jurisdictions, and, if necessary, judicial remedies.
Further, we may be required to pay the full assessment to the STA in advance of the final resolution of the matter.
The total assessment, including penalties and interest, was approximately €571 million (approximately $640 million).
We disagree with the proposed assessment and intend to vigorously contest it.
We plan to pursue all remedies available to us to successfully resolve this matter, including administrative remedies with the FTA and, if necessary, judicial remedies.
The final resolution of the Company’s global tax disputes is uncertain.
29

17.
The shares underlying these equity awards are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period.
Approximately 3 million and 6 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as their underlying performance measures had not yet been met.
Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive.
Therefore, approximately 6 million and 2 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
18.
Capital Transactions



Repurchase Program



On January 31, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1.5 billion of our common stock from February 14, 2019, until the earlier of February 13, 2021, and a determination by the Board of Directors to discontinue the repurchase program.
As of March 31, 2019, we have not repurchased any shares under this program.
Dividends



On February 12, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share.
Such dividend is payable on May 9, 2019, to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 28, 2019.
On February 8, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.34 per common share.
On May 9, 2018, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $259 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2018.
30

19.
Commitments and Contingencies



Legal Proceedings



We are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters.
31
