Item 1.
Financial Statements 



ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(Unaudited) 



(Amounts in millions, except share data) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4 



Table of Contents 



ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 



(Unaudited) 



(Amounts in millions, except per share data) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5 



Table of Contents 



ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



(Unaudited) 



(Amounts in millions) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
6 



Table of Contents 



ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(Unaudited) 



(Amounts in millions) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) Excludes deferral and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
(2) Includes the net effects of capitalization, deferral, and amortization of share-based compensation expense.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7 



Table of Contents 



ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 



For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 



(Unaudited) 



(Amounts and shares in millions, except per share data) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
8 



Table of Contents 



ACTIVISION BLIZZARD, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements 



(Unaudited) 



1.
Description of Business and Basis of Consolidation and Presentation 



Activision Blizzard, Inc. is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services.
We develop and distribute content and services on video game consoles, personal computers (“PC”), and mobile devices.
We also operate esports events and leagues and create film and television content based on our intellectual property.
The terms “Activision Blizzard,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” are used to refer collectively to Activision Blizzard, Inc. and its subsidiaries.
The Company was originally incorporated in California in 1979 and was reincorporated in Delaware in December 1992.
In connection with the 2008 business combination by and among the Company (then known as Activision, Inc.), Vivendi S.A. (“Vivendi”), and Vivendi Games, Inc., then an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Vivendi, we were renamed Activision Blizzard, Inc.
The common stock of Activision Blizzard is traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market under the ticker symbol “ATVI.” 



Our Segments 



Based upon our organizational structure, we conduct our business through three reportable segments, as follows: 



(i) Activision Publishing, Inc. 



Activision Publishing, Inc. (“Activision”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the console platform.
Activision primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including full-game and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Activision products.
Activision develops, markets, and sells products based on our internally developed intellectual properties, as well as some licensed properties.
We have also established a long-term alliance with Bungie to publish its game universe, Destiny.
Activision’s key product franchises include: Call of Duty®, a first-person shooter for the console and PC platforms; and Destiny, an online universe of first-person action gameplay (which we call a “shared-world shooter”) for the console and PC platforms.
(ii) Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. 



Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. (“Blizzard”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive software products and entertainment content, particularly for the PC platform.
Blizzard primarily delivers content through retail and digital channels, including subscriptions, full-game, and in-game sales, as well as by licensing software to third-party or related-party companies that distribute Blizzard products.
Blizzard also maintains a proprietary online gaming service, Blizzard Battle.net®, which facilitates digital distribution of Blizzard content, along with Activision’s Destiny 2 PC content, online social connectivity, and the creation of user-generated content.
Blizzard also includes the activities of our Major League Gaming (“MLG”) business, which is responsible for various esports events, and serves as a multi-platform network for Activision Blizzard esports content.
Blizzard’s key product franchises include: World of Warcraft®, a subscription-based massive multi-player online role-playing game for the PC platform; StarCraft®, a real-time strategy franchise for the PC platform; Diablo®, an action role-playing franchise for the PC and console platforms; Hearthstone®, an online collectible card franchise for the PC and mobile platforms; Heroes of the Storm®, a free-to-play team brawler for the PC platform; and Overwatch®, a team-based first-person shooter for the PC and console platforms.
9 



Table of Contents 



(iii) King Digital Entertainment 



King Digital Entertainment (“King”) is a leading global developer and publisher of interactive entertainment content and services, particularly on mobile platforms, such as Google Inc.’s (“Google”) Android and Apple Inc.’s (“Apple”) iOS.
King also distributes its content and services on the PC platform, primarily via Facebook.
King’s games are free to play, however, players can acquire in-game items, either with virtual currency or directly using real currency.
King’s key product franchises, all of which are for the mobile and PC platforms, include: Candy Crush™, which features “match three” games; Farm Heroes™, which also features “match three” games; and Bubble Witch™, which features “bubble shooter” games.
Other 



We also engage in other businesses that do not represent reportable segments, including: 



· the Activision Blizzard Studios (“Studios”) business, which is devoted to creating original film and television content based on our library of globally recognized intellectual properties, and which, in October 2017, released the second season of the animated TV series Skylanders™ Academy on Netflix; and 



· the Activision Blizzard Distribution (“Distribution”) business, which consists of operations in Europe that provide warehousing, logistics, and sales distribution services to third-party publishers of interactive entertainment software, our own publishing operations, and manufacturers of interactive entertainment hardware.
Basis of Consolidation and Presentation 



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim reporting.
The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by U.S. GAAP.
Accordingly, the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts and operations of the Company.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current period presentation.
10 



Table of Contents 



Supplemental Cash Flow Information 



For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows include restricted cash of $7 million and $8 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2017, the beginning and ending cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows included restricted cash of $17 million and $10 million, respectively.
2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 



During the six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no significant changes to our accounting policies, except for our adoption of a new revenue accounting standard as discussed below.
Refer to Note 2 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for a summary of our other significant accounting policies.
Adoption of Accounting Standards Codification 606: Revenue from Contracts with Customers 



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition.
The new standard replaces all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminates all industry-specific guidance, providing a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard and related amendments (collectively, the “new revenue accounting standard”).
As a result, we have updated our significant accounting policy disclosure for revenue recognition herein.
Refer to Note 3 for the impact of adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Our products span various genres, including first-person shooter, action/adventure, role-playing, strategy, and “match three,” among others.
We primarily offer the following products and services: 



· full games, which typically provide access to main game content, primarily for console or PC; 



· downloadable content, which provides players with additional in-game content to purchase following the purchase of a full game; 



· microtransactions, which typically provide relatively small pieces of additional in-game content or enhancements to gameplay; and 



· subscriptions to players in our World of Warcraft franchise, which provide continual access to the game content.
When control of the promised products and services is transferred to our customers, we recognize revenue in the amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for these products and services.
We determine revenue recognition by: 



· identifying the contract, or contracts, with a customer; 



· identifying the performance obligations in the contract; 



· determining the transaction price; 



· allocating the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract; and 



· recognizing revenue when, or as, we satisfy performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services.
11 



Table of Contents 



Certain products are sold to customers with a “street date” (which is the earliest date these products may be sold by retailers).
For these products, we recognize revenues on the later of the street date and the date the product is sold to our customer.
For digital full-game downloads sold to customers, we recognize revenue when it is available for download or is activated for gameplay.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment immediately upon purchase or within 30 to 90 days.
Product Sales 



Product sales consist of sales of our games, including physical products and digital full-game downloads.
Revenues from product sales are recognized after deducting the estimated allowance for returns and price protection, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize.
Returns and price protection are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available.
This evaluation is performed for each software product or product add-on, including downloadable content.
These products may be sold in a bundle with other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations.
12 



Table of Contents 



Online Hosted Software Arrangements 



For our online hosted software arrangements, such as titles for the Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush franchises, substantially all gameplay and functionality are obtained through our continuous hosting of the game content for the player.
Similar to our software products with online functionality, these arrangements may include other products and services, which often results in the recognition of additional performance obligations.
Revenues related to online hosted software arrangements are generally recognized ratably over the estimated service period.
Subscription Arrangements 



Subscription revenue arrangements are mostly derived from World of Warcraft, which is playable through Blizzard’s servers and is generally sold on a subscription-only basis.
For World of Warcraft, after the first month of free usage that is included with the initial purchase of World of Warcraft software, the World of Warcraft end user may enter into a subscription agreement for additional future access.
Revenues associated with the sales of subscriptions via initial software purchases and standalone subscriptions sales are deferred until the subscription service is activated by the consumer and are then recognized ratably over the subscription period as the performance obligations are satisfied.
These arrangements typically include multiple performance obligations, such as an upfront license of intellectual property and rights to specified or unspecified future updates.
Royalty payments in excess of the minimum guarantee are generally recognized when the licensed product is sold by the licensee.
Other Revenues 



Other revenues primarily include revenues from downloadable content (e.g., multi-player content packs), microtransactions, and licensing of intellectual property other than software to third-parties.
Microtransaction revenues are derived from the sale of virtual currencies and goods to our players to enhance their gameplay experience.
Proceeds from these sales of virtual currencies and goods are initially recorded in deferred revenue.
Proceeds from the sales of virtual currencies are recognized as revenues when a player uses the virtual goods purchased with a virtual currency.
Proceeds from the sales of virtual goods directly are similarly recognized as revenues when a player uses the virtual goods.
We categorize our virtual goods as either “consumable” or “durable”.
Consumable virtual goods represent goods that can be consumed by a specific player action; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of consumable virtual goods as the goods are consumed and our performance obligation is satisfied.
Durable virtual goods represent goods that are accessible to the player over an extended period of time; accordingly, we recognize revenues from the sale of durable virtual goods ratably over the period of time the goods are available to the player and our performance obligation is satisfied, which is generally the estimated service period.
Fixed fee payments from customers for the license of our brand or franchise are generally recognized over the license term.
Fixed fee payments from customers for the license of our media content are generally recognized when control has transferred to the customer, which may be upfront or over time.
13 



Table of Contents 



Significant Judgment around Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables 



Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
Significant judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation and to determine whether there is a discount that needs to be allocated based on the relative standalone selling price of the various products and services.
Estimated Service Period 



We consider a variety of data points when determining the estimated service period for players of our games, including the weighted average number of days between players’ first and last days played online, the average total hours played, the average number of days in which player activity stabilizes, and the weighted-average number of days between players’ first purchase date and last date played online.
We also consider known online trends, the service periods of our previously released games, and, to the extent publicly available, the service periods of our competitors’ games that are similar in nature to ours.
We believe this provides a reasonable depiction of the transfer of services to our customers, as it is the best representation of the time period during which our customers play our games.
Determining the estimated service period is subjective and requires management’s judgment.
The estimated service periods for players of our current games are generally less than 12 months.
Principal Agent Considerations 



We evaluate sales of our products and content via third-party digital storefronts, such as Microsoft Corporation’s (“Microsoft”) Xbox Games Store, Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc.’s (“Sony”) PSN, Apple App Store, and the Google Play Store, to determine whether revenues should be reported gross or net of fees retained by the storefront.
Key indicators that we evaluate in determining gross versus net treatment include, but are not limited to, the following: 



· which party is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service; and 



· which party has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service.
Based on our evaluation of the above indicators, we report revenues on a gross basis for sales arrangements via Apple App Store and Google Play Store, and we report revenues on a net basis (i.e., net of fees retained by the digital storefront) for sales arrangements via Microsoft’s Xbox Games Store and Sony’s PSN.
14 



Table of Contents 



Contract Balances 



We generally record a receivable related to revenue when we have an unconditional right to invoice and receive payment, and record deferred revenue when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance, even if amounts are refundable.
Any significant changes in any of these criteria would affect management’s estimates in establishing our allowance for doubtful accounts.
Deferred revenue is comprised primarily of unearned revenue related to the sale of products with online functionality or online hosted arrangements.
These sales are typically invoiced and collected on at the beginning of the contract period, and revenue is recognized ratably over the estimated service period.
Refer to Note 9 for further information, including changes in deferred revenue during the period.
Assets Recognized from Costs to Obtain a Contract with a Customer 



We apply the practical expedient to expense costs, as incurred, to obtain a contract with a customer when the amortization period would have been one year or less for certain similar contracts in which commissions are paid to internal personnel or third parties.
We believe application of the practical expedient has a limited effect on the amount and timing of cost recognition.
Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial as of June 30, 2018.
We benchmark units to be shipped to our customers using historical and industry data.
We may permit product returns from, or grant price protection to, our customers under certain conditions.
The conditions our customers must meet to be granted the right to return products or receive price protection credits include, among other things, compliance with applicable trading and payment terms and consistent return of inventory and delivery of sell-through reports to us.
The relative importance of these factors varies among titles depending upon, among other things, genre, platform, seasonality, and sales strategy.
Based upon historical experience, we believe that our estimates are reasonable.
3.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 



Revenue Recognition 



As noted in Note 2 above, we adopted the new revenue accounting standard effective January 1, 2018, utilizing the modified retrospective method.
Additionally, we elected to apply the new revenue accounting standard only to contracts not completed as of the adoption date.
For contracts that were modified before the period of adoption, we elected to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications when (1) identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, (2) determining the transaction price, and (3) allocating the transaction price to the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations.
We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue accounting standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Under the prior accounting standards, VSOE for undelivered elements was required.
This requirement was eliminated under the new revenue accounting standard.
Accordingly, we are required to recognize as revenue a portion of the sales price upon delivery of this software, as compared to recognizing the entire sales price ratably over an estimated service period as previously required.
This difference in accounting primarily impacted revenues from our Call of Duty franchise, where approximately 20% of the sales price is now recognized as revenue upon delivery of the games to our customers.
For example, we expect the entire sales price from our upcoming Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 release to be recognized ratably over an estimated service period, as the gameplay will have an increased focus towards the online competitive and cooperative game modes with no single-player campaign mode.
Many of our other franchises, such as Destiny, Overwatch, World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush, are online hosted arrangements, and the accounting for our sales of these games under the new standard is relatively unchanged; and 



· The accounting for certain of our software licensing arrangements.
While the impact of the new revenue accounting standard may differ on a contract-by-contract basis (as the actual revenue recognition treatment required under the standard will depend on contract-specific terms), the new revenue accounting standard generally results in earlier revenue recognition for these arrangements.
Adoption of the new revenue accounting standard impacted our condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, and our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2018 as follows (in millions, except per share data): 



17 



Table of Contents 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



18 



Table of Contents 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



19 



Table of Contents 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Adoption of the new revenue accounting standard had no impact to net cash from or used in operating, investing, or financing activities in our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
Financial Instruments 



In January 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The new standard, among other things, generally requires companies to measure investments in other entities, except those accounted for under the equity method, at fair value and to recognize any changes in fair value in net income.
The new standard also simplifies the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and the guidance should be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.
The guidance related to equity investments without readily determinable fair values (including disclosure requirements) is applied prospectively to equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption.
We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and it did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Statement of Cash Flows-Restricted Cash 



In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The new standard requires that a statement of cash flows explain any change during the period in total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash.
Therefore, restricted cash will be included with “Cash and cash equivalents” when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and should be applied retrospectively.
Early adoption is permitted.
We adopted the new standard during the first quarter of 2018 and applied the standard retrospectively for all periods presented.
The application of this new standard did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2018, there will be a significant impact to the consolidated statements of cash flows for 2016, as this period includes, as an investing activity, the $3.6 billion movement in restricted cash resulting from the transfer of cash into escrow at December 31, 2015 to facilitate the acquisition of King, and the subsequent release of that cash in 2016 to complete the acquisition.
Under this new standard, the restricted cash balance will be included in the beginning and ending total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances and, hence, will not be included as an investing activity in the statement of cash flows.
20 



Table of Contents 



Derivatives and Hedging 



In August 2017, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for derivatives and hedging.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
We adopted the standard during the first quarter of 2018.
The adoption of the standard did not have a material impact to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted 



Leases 



In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the accounting for leases.
The new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic.
The new standard, among other things, requires a lessee to classify a lease as either an operating or financing lease, and to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for its leases.
Classification will be based on criteria that are largely similar to those applied in current lease accounting.
The lease liability will be equal to the present value of lease payments.
The asset will be based on the lease liability, subject to adjustment for initial direct costs, lease incentives received, and any prepaid lease payments.
Operating leases will result in a straight-line expense pattern, while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern.
The standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
The new standard must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition and will require application of the new guidance at the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented, with certain transition practical expedients available to provide relief in adopting the new standard.
We do not plan to early adopt this new standard but do expect to elect and apply the available transition practical expedients upon adoption.
Goodwill 



In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance which eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Instead, if an entity forgoes a Step 0 test, an entity will be required to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit, as determined in Step 1 from the goodwill impairment test, with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge, if any, for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be applied prospectively.
Early adoption is permitted.
The effect of adoption should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.
21 



Table of Contents 



4.
Inventories, Net 



Inventories, net, consist of the following (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, inventory reserves were $32 million and $36 million, respectively.
5.
Intangible Assets, Net 



Intangible assets, net, consist of the following (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



22 



Table of Contents 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $77 million and $196 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense of our intangible assets was $194 million and $385 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
At June 30, 2018, future amortization of definite-lived intangible assets is estimated as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



7.
Goodwill 



The carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



8.
Fair Value Measurements 



The FASB literature regarding fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value.
This hierarchy requires entities to maximize the use of “observable inputs” and minimize the use of “unobservable inputs.” The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows: 



· Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 



· Level 2—Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data; and 



· Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities, including certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.
23 



Table of Contents 



Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis 



The table below segregates all of our financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis into the most appropriate level within the fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used to determine the fair value at the measurement date (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



24 



Table of Contents 



Foreign Currency Forward Contracts 



Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Designated as Hedges (“Cash Flow Hedges”) 



The total gross notional amounts and fair values of our Cash Flow Hedges are as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



At June 30, 2018, our Cash Flow Hedges have remaining maturities of 12 months or less.
Additionally, less than $1 million of net realized but unrecognized losses are recorded within “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” at June 30, 2018 for Cash Flow Hedges that had settled but were deferred and will be amortized into earnings, along with the associated hedged revenues.
Such amounts will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
The amount of pre-tax net realized gains (losses) associated with our Cash Flow Hedges that were reclassified out of “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” and into earnings was as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Foreign Currency Forward Contracts Not Designated as Hedges 



The total gross notional amounts and fair values of our foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedges are as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, pre-tax net gains associated with these forward contracts were recorded in “General and administrative expenses” and were not material.
Fair Value Measurements on a Non-Recurring Basis 



We measure the fair value of certain assets on a non-recurring basis, generally annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were no impairment charges related to assets that are measured on a non-recurring basis.
9.
Deferred revenues 



We record deferred revenues when cash payments are received or due in advance of the fulfillment of our associated performance obligations.
The opening balance and ending balance of deferred revenues as of January 1, 2018 and June 30, 2018 were $1.8 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, including our current and non-current balances.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the additions to our deferred revenues balance were primarily due to cash payments received or due in advance of satisfying our performance obligations, while the reductions to our deferred revenues balance were primarily due to the recognition of revenues upon fulfillment of our performance obligations, both of which were in the ordinary course of business.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, $1.5 billion of revenues were recognized that were included in the deferred revenues balance at the beginning of the period.
This balance does not include an estimate for variable consideration arising from sales-based royalty license revenue in excess of the contractual minimum guarantee.
10.
Debt 



Credit Facilities 



At December 31, 2017, we had outstanding term loans “A” of approximately $990 million (the “2017 TLA”) and $250 million available under a revolving credit facility (the “Revolver”) pursuant to a credit agreement executed on October 11, 2013 (as amended thereafter and from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”).
To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver and at June 30, 2018, the 2017 TLA bore interest at 3.22% and had an outstanding balance of $990 million.
We were in compliance with the terms of the Credit Agreement as of June 30, 2018.
Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for further details regarding the Credit Agreement, key terms, and amendments made to the Credit Agreement.
Unsecured Senior Notes 



At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had the following unsecured senior notes outstanding: 



· $750 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due September 2023 that we issued on September 19, 2013 (the “2023 Notes”), in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”); 



· $650 million of 2.3% unsecured senior notes due September 2021 (the “2021 Notes”) and $850 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due September 2026 (the “2026 Notes”) that we initially issued on September 19, 2016, in a private offering made in accordance with Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act, and subsequently exchanged for publicly registered notes in June 2017; and 



· $400 million of 2.6% unsecured senior notes due June 2022 (the “2022 Notes”), $400 million of 3.4% unsecured senior notes due June 2027 (the “2027 Notes”), and $400 million of 4.5% unsecured senior notes due June 2047 (the “2047 Notes”, and together with the 2021 Notes, the 2022 Notes, the 2023 Notes, the 2026 Notes, and the 2027 Notes, the “Notes”), that we issued on May 26, 2017, in a public underwritten offering.
The Notes are general senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu in right of payment to all of the Company’s existing and future senior indebtedness, including the 2017 TLA and Revolver described above.
The Notes are not secured and are effectively subordinated to any of the Company’s existing and future indebtedness that is secured.
We were in compliance with the terms of the Notes as of June 30, 2018.
Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2021 Notes, the 2023 Notes, and 2026 Notes, and payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year for the 2022 Notes, the 2027 Notes, and 2047 Notes.
As of both June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, we had accrued interest payable of $28 million related to the Notes.
26 



Table of Contents 



On July 17, 2018, we issued an irrevocable notice of redemption to the holders of all of our outstanding 2023 Notes.
Accordingly, the 2023 Notes will be redeemed pursuant to their terms on August 16, 2018 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2023 Notes plus a “make-whole” premium calculated as set forth in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes.
Redemption of the 2023 Notes will result in a loss on extinguishment of approximately $35 million, comprised of premium payments of approximately $27 million and a write-off of unamortized discount and financing costs of approximately $8 million.
As the irrevocable notice of redemption was issued subsequent to June 30, 2018, we presented the outstanding principal balance of the 2023 Notes and its related unamortized discount and deferred financing costs as “Long-term debt, net” on our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2018.
Refer to Note 11 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 for further details regarding our key terms under our indentures that govern the Notes.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, interest expense was $41 million and $80 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $2 million and $4 million, respectively.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, interest expense was $36 million and $71 million, respectively, and amortization of the debt discount and deferred financing costs was $2 million and $9 million, respectively.
A summary of our outstanding debt is as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



27 



Table of Contents 



As of June 30, 2018, the scheduled maturities and contractual principal repayments of our debt for each of the five succeeding years are as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) Includes payment of our 2023 Notes at maturity.
As discussed above, on July 17, 2018 we issued an irrevocable notice of redemption to the holders of the 2023 Notes that all of our outstanding 2023 Notes will be redeemed on August 16, 2018.
On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized repayment of up to $1.8 billion of the company’s outstanding debt during 2018.
As discussed above, on July 17, 2018, we issued an irrevocable notice to the holders of our 2023 Notes that all of our outstanding 2023 Notes will be redeemed on August 16, 2018.
Using Level 2 inputs (i.e., observable market prices in less-than-active markets) at June 30, 2018, with the exception of the 2026 Notes and the 2027 Notes, the carrying values of our debt instruments approximated their fair values, as the interest rates were similar to current rates at which we could borrow funds over the selected interest periods.
At June 30, 2018, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2026 Notes and the 2027 Notes were $810 million and $379 million, respectively.
Using Level 2 inputs at December 31, 2017, with the exception of the 2023 Notes and the 2047 Notes, the carrying values of our debt instruments approximated their fair values.
At December 31, 2017, based on Level 2 inputs, the fair values of the 2023 Notes and the 2047 Notes were $795 million and $421 million, respectively.
11.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 



The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



28 



Table of Contents 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Income taxes were not previously provided for foreign currency translation items, as these were considered indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Tax Reform Act”), we re-evaluated our indefinite reinvestment assertions and no longer consider these items to be indefinite investments.
The corresponding tax impact for this change in assertion was not material.
12.
Operating Segments and Geographic Region 



Currently, we have three reportable segments.
Our operating segments are consistent with the manner in which our operations are reviewed and managed by our Chief Executive Officer, who is our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”).
The CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis, and accordingly, no disclosure is made with respect thereto.
Our operating segments are also consistent with our internal organizational structure, the way we assess operating performance and allocate resources, and the availability of separate financial information.
We do not aggregate operating segments.
Information on reportable segment net revenues and operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, are presented below (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



29 



Table of Contents 



Information on reportable segment net revenues and operating income for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, are presented below (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.
Also includes unallocated corporate income and expenses.
(2) Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.
(4) Reflects restructuring charges, primarily severance costs.
Due to requirements from our adoption of the new revenue accounting standard as discussed in Note 2, net revenues by distribution channel for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, include a reconciliation to our segment revenues as disclosed for each of our reportable segments above.
Net revenues by distribution channel were as follows (amounts in millions): 



31 



Table of Contents 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



32 



Table of Contents 



Net revenues by distribution channel for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, were as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) Net revenues from “Digital online channels” include revenues from digitally-distributed subscriptions, downloadable content, microtransactions, and products, as well as licensing royalties.
(3) Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.
Geographic information presented below is based on the location of the paying customer.
Net revenues by geographic region, including a reconciliation to each of our reportable segment’s net revenues, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, were as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



33 



Table of Contents 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenues by geographic region for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, were as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) “EMEA” consists of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa geographic regions.
(2) Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 49% and 46% of consolidated net revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% of consolidated net revenues for both the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the three months ended June 30, 2018 or 2017.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.S. were 48% and 47% of consolidated net revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company’s net revenues in the U.K. were 10% of consolidated net revenues for both the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
No other country’s net revenues exceeded 10% of consolidated net revenues for either the six months ended June 30, 2018 or 2017.
34 



Table of Contents 



Net revenues by platform, including a reconciliation to each of our reportable segment’s net revenues, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, were as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



35 



Table of Contents 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenues by platform for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, were as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) Net revenues from “Mobile and ancillary” include revenues from mobile devices, as well as non-platform specific game-related revenues, such as standalone sales of toys and accessories from our Skylanders® franchise and other physical merchandise and accessories.
(2) Net revenues from “Other” include revenues from our Studios and Distribution businesses, as well as revenues from MLG and the Overwatch League.
(3) Intersegment revenues reflect licensing and service fees charged between segments.
36 



Table of Contents 



Long-lived assets by geographic region were as follows (amounts in millions): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1) The only long-lived assets that we classify by region are our long-term tangible fixed assets, which consist of property, plant, and equipment assets; all other long-term assets are not allocated by location.
13.
Changes in judgment from the evaluation of new information resulting in the recognition, derecognition, or remeasurement of a tax position taken in a prior annual period are recognized separately in the quarter of the change.
On June 27, 2018, the Company entered into a closing agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) to resolve certain intercompany transfer pricing arrangements for tax periods starting in 2009 (the “Closing Agreement”).
The primary adjustments recognized in the second quarter of 2018 related to the Closing Agreement were a tax expense of $70 million and a reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of $437 million.
We expect the Closing Agreement to result in federal and state cash tax payments of approximately $345 million, which we expect to be made mostly before December 31, 2018.
We record a valuation allowance for assets that do not meet the threshold of “more likely than not” to be realized in the future.
To make that determination, the Company evaluates the likelihood of realization based on the weight of all positive and negative evidence available.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had a deferred tax asset for California research and development credit carryforwards (“CA R&D Credits”), which can be carried forward indefinitely.
The Closing Agreement impacts historical and prospective filings in certain states, including California, and after considering the impact of the Closing Agreement on its prospective California taxable income, the Company determined that its remaining CA R&D Credits no longer met the threshold of more likely than not being realized in the future.
Accordingly, during the three months ended June 30, 2018, we recorded a full valuation allowance of $57 million.
We will reassess this determination quarterly and record a tax benefit if future evidence allows for a partial or full release of this valuation allowance.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Reform Act was enacted.
37 



Table of Contents 



On December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”), which provides guidance on how to account for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act under ASC 740.
SAB 118 enabled companies to record a provisional amount for the effects of the U.S. Tax Reform Act based on a reasonable estimate, subject to adjustment during a measurement period of up to one year, until accounting is complete.
In addition, as of December 31.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company obtained additional information, including adjustments related to the Closing Agreement, and the evaluation of the impact of changing our indefinite reinvestment assertion, which affected the provisional amount initially recorded for the U.S. Tax Reform Act in the fourth quarter of 2017.
The decrease is due to a discrete net tax benefit resulting from the Closing Agreement and the benefit from the lower U.S. corporate income tax rate in the current year, net of the impact of GILTI.
This decrease was partially offset by the valuation allowance recorded with regard to CA R&D Credits and the additional income tax expense related to the change in the provisional amount described above.
The income tax expense of $73 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, reflects an effective tax rate of 7%, which is lower than the effective tax rate of 10% for the six months ended June 30, 2017.
The decrease is due to a discrete net tax benefit resulting from the Closing Agreement and the benefit from the lower U.S. corporate income tax rate in the current year, net of the impact of GILTI.
This decrease was partially offset by the valuation allowance recorded with regard to CA R&D Credits, lower excess tax benefits from share-based payments, and the additional income tax expense related to the change in the provisional amount described above.
The Company also has several state and non-U.S. audits pending, including the French audit discussed below.
In addition, as part of purchase price accounting for our 2016 acquisition of King, the Company assumed $74 million of uncertain tax positions primarily related to pre-acquisition transfer pricing matters.
38 



Table of Contents 



On December 28, 2017, we received a Notice of Reassessment from the French Tax Authority (“FTA”) related to transfer pricing concerning intercompany transactions involving one of our French subsidiaries for the 2011 through 2013 tax years.
The total assessment, including penalties and interest, was approximately €571 million ($660 million).
We disagree with the proposed assessment and intend to vigorously contest it.
We plan to pursue all remedies available to us to successfully resolve this matter, including administrative remedies with the FTA, and, if necessary, judicial remedies.
The final resolution of the Company’s global tax disputes is uncertain.
39 



Table of Contents 



14.
The shares underlying these equity awards are included in the weighted-average dilutive common shares only if the performance measures are met as of the end of the reporting period.
Approximately 6 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, as their underlying performance measures had not yet been met.
Approximately 9 million shares are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, as their underlying performance measures had not yet been met.
Potential common shares are not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per common share calculation when the inclusion of such shares would be anti-dilutive.
Therefore, approximately 2 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, and 1 million and 5 million options to purchase shares of common stock were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017, respectively, as the effect of their inclusion would be anti-dilutive.
15.
Capital Transactions 



Repurchase Program 



On February 2, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock during the two-year period from February 13, 2017 through February 12, 2019.
As of June 30, 2018, we have not repurchased any shares under this program.
Dividends 



On February 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.34 per common share.
On May 9, 2018, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $259 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2018.
On February 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.30 per common share.
On May 10, 2017, we made an aggregate cash dividend payment of $226 million to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 30, 2017.
40 



Table of Contents 



16.
Commitments and Contingencies 



Legal Proceedings 



We are party to routine claims, suits, investigations, audits, and other proceedings arising from the ordinary course of business, including with respect to intellectual property rights, contractual claims, labor and employment matters, regulatory matters, tax matters, unclaimed property matters, compliance matters, and collection matters.
