 PART II  



 OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1.Legal Proceedings  



 As a result primarily of certain former manufacturing operations, Avnet has incurred and may have future liability under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those governing pollution and exposure to, and the handling, storage and disposal of, hazardous substances.
For example, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, and similar state laws, Avnet is and may be liable for the costs of cleaning up environmental contamination on or from certain of its current or former properties, and at off-site locations where the Company disposed of wastes in the past.
Such laws may impose joint and several liability.
Typically, however, the costs for clean up at such sites are allocated among potentially responsible parties based upon each party’s relative contribution to the contamination, and other factors.
Pursuant to SEC regulations, including but not limited to Item 103 of Regulation S-K, the Company regularly assesses the status of and developments in pending environmental and other compliance related legal proceedings to determine whether any such proceedings should be identified specifically in this discussion of legal proceedings, and has concluded that no particular pending legal proceeding requires public disclosure.
Based on the information known to date, management believes that the Company has appropriately accrued in its consolidated financial statements for its share of the estimable costs of environmental and other compliance related matters.
27  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 1A.Risk Factors  



 This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
The Company is monitoring the Brexit negotiations and developing contingency plans, including changes to its logistics operations and shipment routes and preparing for changes in trade facilitation regulations; and 



   ·    legislative or regulatory changes affecting Avnet’s businesses.
Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which that statement is made.
Except as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made.
As of September 29, 2018, there have been no material changes to the risk factors set forth in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
28  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The Company’s Board of Directors has approved the repurchase of up to $2.45 billion of the Company’s common stock under the Company’s share repurchase program including an increase in August 2018 of $500.0 million.
The following table includes the Company’s monthly purchases of the Company’s common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, under the share repurchase program, which is part of a publicly announced plan.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 29  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 6.Exhibits  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   *    Filed herewith.
**    Furnished herewith.
The information in these exhibits shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to liability under that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
30  



 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURE  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 8, 2018  



        AVNET, INC.   



        By:    /s/ THOMAS LIGUORI   



             Thomas Liguori   



             Chief Financial Officer    



 31
