ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
3 



Table of Contents  



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements 



4 



Table of Contents  



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)  



(in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
5 



Table of Contents  



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 



 (in thousands)  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
6 



Table of Contents  



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



1.
Basis of Presentation: 



The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2017.
This was the primary reason for a change in AVX's global tax rate estimate for the fiscal year ending  March 2018, resulting in a blended, estimated global tax rate of 27% for fiscal 2018.
The Act also resulted in an estimated net decrease in the valuation of U.S. net current and deferred tax assets and liabilities of $24.7 million.
This one-time tax is assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions, and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This one-time tax was recorded in the results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, and was approximately $75.6 million, which is payable in installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
Based on our current interpretation of the Act, we made reasonable estimates to record provisional adjustments during our fiscal third quarter ended  December 31, 2017.
In consideration of the Act, the Company has determined that it is no longer necessary to assert that cash and profits generated by our foreign subsidiaries will continue to be reinvested locally indefinitely.
Relevant New Accounting Standards 



In  May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” This guidance modifies how an entity will determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
The guidance provides for a five-step approach in applying the standard: 1) identifying the contract with the customer, 2) identifying separate performance obligations in the contract, 3) determining the transaction price, 4) allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations, and 5) recognizing the revenue when the performance obligation has been satisfied.
The new guidance requires enhanced disclosures for the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue that is being recognized.
The guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2017.
Companies  may use either a full retrospective or a modified retrospective approach to adopt ASU 2014-09.
In  February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position.
The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases.
Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
This guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
7 



Table of Contents  



In  March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, “Compensation — Stock Compensation.” The standard is intended to simplify several areas of accounting for share-based compensation arrangements, including the income tax impact, classification on the statement of cash flows and forfeitures.
The guidance is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods.
The standard became effective for the interim reporting period ending  June 30, 2017 and has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other.” This guidance simplifies how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill.
Instead, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
This ASU also removes the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment, and if it fails that qualitative test to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test.
Companies are to apply the standard on a prospective basis.
The guidance is effective for public companies that are an SEC filer for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted and management elected to adopt this guidance beginning with the interim period ending  June 30, 2017.
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
The guidance is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Early adoption is permitted in any interim period after issuance.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
2.
Acquisition: 



On  October 2, 2017, AVX acquired the AB Electronics sensing and control business from TT Electronics, PLC, for $150.3 million, net of cash acquired.
Now named Sensing and Control (“S&C”) and consolidated with our Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment (formerly AVX Interconnect) for financial reporting purposes, the acquisition enhances AVX’s position in the automotive business and provides further opportunities for expansion and growth.
Goodwill associated with the acquisition has been allocated to the Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices reporting unit.
The Company has used the acquisition method of accounting to record the transaction in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” In accordance with the acquisition method, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess being allocated to goodwill.
Factors that contributed to the recognition of goodwill include expected synergies and the trained workforce.
The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
8 



Table of Contents  



As of  December 31, 2017, a preliminary allocation of the purchase price was prepared based on estimates of fair values, as shown in the table below.
The results of operations for S&C since the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The purchase price allocation has been prepared based on preliminary estimates.
Therefore, final amounts recorded  may differ from information presented pending further review of the acquired business.
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information is provided for the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017 as though S&C had been acquired as of  April 1, 2016.
Unaudited pro forma net sales for the three month period ended  December 31, 2016 would be $414,186 and $431,795, respectively.
Unaudited pro forma net sales for the nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017 would be $1,220,787 and $1,289,793, respectively.
3.
Earnings Per Share: 



Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period.
Equity awards are the only common stock equivalents currently used in our calculation and are computed using the treasury stock method.
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



(1) Common stock equivalents not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the impact would have been antidilutive were 776 shares and no shares for the three months ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively and 1,580 shares and 121 shares for the nine months ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively.
In addition, 777 and 653 shares that would have been dilutive, if we had net income, were excluded from diluted earnings per share due to the Company’s net loss for the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017.
9   



Table of Contents  



4.
Trade Accounts Receivable: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Charges related to allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to selling, general and administrative expenses.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



10   



Table of Contents  



5.
Fair Value: 



Fair Value Hierarchy: 



The fair value framework requires the categorization of assets and liabilities into three levels based upon the assumptions (inputs) used to value the assets or liabilities.
Level 1 provides the most reliable measure of fair value, whereas Level 3 generally requires significant management judgment.
The three levels are defined as follows:  



-   



Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



-   



Level 3: Unobservable inputs reflecting management’s own assumptions about the inputs used in pricing the asset or liability.
During the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



11 



Table of Contents  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



(1) The market value of the assets held in the trust for the non-qualified deferred compensation program is included as an asset and as a liability as the trust’s assets are both assets of the Company and also a liability as they are available to general creditors in certain circumstances.
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss).
Realized gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and gains and losses on derivatives not designated as hedges are recorded in other income.
Valuation Techniques: 



The following describes valuation techniques used to appropriately value our assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan and derivatives.
Assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan 



Assets valued using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the table above represent assets from our non-qualified deferred compensation program.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary.
If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
12 



Table of Contents  



Derivatives 



We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
6.
Financial Instruments and Investments in Securities: 



At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities.
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost.
We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity.
All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income.
Investments in held-to-maturity securities, recorded at amortized cost, were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



13 



Table of Contents  



The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity investments at  December 31, 2017, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
The estimated fair value of these investments are based on valuation inputs that include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker and dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and reference data, which are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy.
Actual maturities  may differ from contractual maturities because issuers  may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



7.
Inventories: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



8.
Commitments and Contingencies: 



We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or state regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs.
At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities.
We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs.
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation.
As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions.
On  June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts.
AVX has substantially completed its obligations pursuant to such agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford with respect to the satisfaction of AVX’s federal law requirements.
The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site.
AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation.
Further, the Site and the remediation  may be subject to additional scrutiny under other statutory procedures which could also add to the cost of remediation.
Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site.
14 



Table of Contents  



We had total reserves of approximately $19,181 and $18,773 at  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, respectively, related to various environmental matters and sites, including those discussed above.
These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $3,892 and $3,484 in accrued expenses at  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, respectively, and $15,289 in other non-current liabilities at both  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017.
The amounts recorded for identified environmental liabilities are based on estimates.
Periodically we review amounts recorded and adjust them to reflect additional legal and technical information that becomes available.
Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, regulatory actions, technology, and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure.
On  April 19, 2016, the Canadian Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (the “MoE”) issued a Director’s Order naming AVX Corporation, and others, as responsible parties with respect to a location in Hamilton, Ontario that was at one time the site of operations of Aerovox Canada, a former subsidiary of Aerovox Corporation, a predecessor of AVX.
This Director’s Order follows a draft order issued on  November 4, 2015.
AVX has taken the position that any liability of Aerovox Canada for such site under the laws of Canada cannot be imposed on AVX.
At present, it is unclear whether the MoE will seek to enforce such Canadian order against AVX, and whether, in the event it does so, AVX will have any liability under applicable law.
AVX intends to contest any such course of action that  may be taken by the MoE.
We also operate, or did at one time, on other sites that  may have potential future environmental issues as a result of activities at sites during AVX’s long history of manufacturing operations or prior to the start of operations by AVX.
A separate account receivable is recorded for any indemnified costs.
On  April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v. AVX Corporation.
This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents.
On  January 26, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in the first phase of a segmented trial and a mixed verdict in the second phase of a segmented trial, and found damages to Greatbatch in the amount of $37,500.
The results of the third trial have not yet been issued by the District Judge.
AVX is continuing to litigate the rest of the case.
On  September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp.
This case alleged that certain ATC products infringe on a Presidio patent.
On  April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio.
On  August 17, 2016, the court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting ATC from manufacturing or selling the related products after  November 16, 2016.
Subsequently, on  October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until  March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to  June 17, 2016.
In  December, 2017, a panel of the Federal Circuit vacated the damage award to Presidio, vacated the injunction, and remanded the case for further proceedings to determine damages limited to “reasonable royalties.”  



We had total reserves of $74,559 and $74,538 plus accrued interest in accrued expenses as of  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, respectively, with respect to the two intellectual property cases discussed above.
The amounts recorded are based on estimated outcomes.
Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information that becomes available.
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market.
The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on  October 2, 2014.
The cases in Canada have not been consolidated.
These cases are still in progress.
AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases.
15 



Table of Contents  



We are involved in other disputes, warranty, and legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business.
9.
Comprehensive Income (Loss): 



Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders.
The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges.
Other comprehensive income (loss) includes the following components:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Please see Note 11 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017.
Please see Note 12 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017.
16 



Table of Contents  



10.
Segment and Geographic Information: 



Our operating segments are based on the types of products from which we generate revenues.
We are organized into a product line organization with five main product groups and three reportable segments.
The product groups of Ceramic, Advanced, and Tantalum Components have been aggregated into the Passive Components reportable segment in accordance with the SEC’s aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds.
The aggregation criteria consist of similar economic characteristics, products and services, production processes, customer classes, and distribution channels.
The Passive Components segment consists primarily of surface mount and leaded ceramic capacitors, RF thick and thin film components, surface mount and leaded tantalum capacitors, surface mount and leaded film capacitors, ceramic and film power capacitors, super capacitors, EMI filters (bolt in and surface mount), thick and thin film packages of multiple passive integrated components, varistors, thermistors, inductors, and resistive products manufactured by us or purchased from other manufacturers for resale.
The product groups of S&C have been aggregated into the Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment in accordance with the SEC’s aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds.
The aggregation criteria consist of similar economic characteristics, products and services, production processes, customer classes, and distribution channels.
The Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment consists primarily of automotive sensing and control devices and automotive, telecom, and memory connectors manufactured by or for AVX.
The KED Resale segment consists primarily of ceramic capacitors, frequency control devices, SAW devices, sensor products, RF modules, actuators, acoustic devices, and connectors produced by Kyocera and resold by AVX.
Sales and operating results from these reportable segments are shown in the tables below.
In addition, we have a corporate administration group consisting of finance, legal, environmental, health & safety (“EH&S”), and administrative activities.
There are no intersegment revenues.
We allocate the costs of shared resources between segments based on each segment’s usage of the shared resources.
Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments.
The tables below present information about reported segments: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



17 



Table of Contents  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following geographic data is based upon net sales generated by operations located within particular geographic areas.
Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



11.
Pension Plans: 



Net periodic pension cost for our defined benefit plans consisted of the following for the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2016 and 2017: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



18 



Table of Contents  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Based on current actuarial computations, during the nine months ended  December 31, 2017, we made contributions of $4,648 to the international plans.
We made $261 in contributions to the U.S. plans during the nine months ended  December 31, 2017.
12.
Derivative Financial Instruments: 



We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the normal course of business.
We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy.
The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities.
We do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than four months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges.
The effectiveness of the cash flow hedges is determined by comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged transaction, both of which are based on forward rates.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on these cash flow hedges is initially recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Once the hedged transaction is recognized, the gain or loss is recognized in our statement of operations.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, respectively, the following forward contracts were entered into to hedge against the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates for certain forecasted sales and purchases: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



19 



Table of Contents  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, net pre-tax losses of $(130) and $(943), respectively, were recognized in other comprehensive income.
In addition, during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, net pre-tax gains (losses) of $ (805) and $1,608, respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pretax gains (losses) of $244 and $(1,774), respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations.
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities.
The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income in the same period as the remeasurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses.
At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



For these derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments during the three and nine month periods ended  December 31, 2017, gains (losses) of $101 and $(777), respectively on hedging contracts were recognized in other income, along with the approximately $(1,277) and $(2,601), respectively, in exchange losses that were recognized in other income in the accompanying statement of operations.
20 



Table of Contents  



At  March 31, 2017 and  December 31, 2017, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $193,156 and $182,680, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen.
13.
Subsequent Events: 



On  February 7, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended  December 31, 2017.
The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on  February 23, 2018 and will be disbursed on  March 5, 2018.
On  January 31, 2018, AVX Corporation completed the purchase of Ethertronics Inc., a privately held manufacturer of passive and active antenna systems, for $138.5 million in cash and assumption of $11.5 million of net debt.
The transaction is subject to customary post-closing adjustments based on Ethertronics' actual net debt and actual working capital as of the closing.
For additional information about this transaction, see the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on  February 1, 2018, and Exhibit 10.1 found in Section 6, “Exhibits,” of this Form 10-Q.
21 



Table of Contents  



   ITEM 2.
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
22 



Table of Contents  



Business Overview 



AVX is a leading worldwide manufacturer, supplier, and reseller of a broad line of passive electronic components and interconnect, sensing and control devices, and related products.
AVX is organized into five main product groups with three reportable segments: Passive Components, Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices, and KED Resale.
The Passive Components segment consists primarily of surface mount and leaded ceramic capacitors, RF thick and thin film components, surface mount and leaded tantalum capacitors, surface mount and leaded film capacitors, ceramic and film power capacitors, super capacitors, EMI filters (bolt in and surface mount), thick and thin film packages of multiple passive integrated components, varistors, thermistors, inductors, and resistive products manufactured by AVX or purchased from other manufacturers for resale.
The Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment consists primarily of automotive sensing and control devices and automotive, telecom, and memory connectors manufactured by, or for, AVX.
The KED Resale segment consists primarily of ceramic capacitors, frequency control devices, SAW devices, sensor products, RF modules, actuators, acoustic devices, and connectors produced by Kyocera and resold by AVX.
Our customers are multi-national original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent electronic component distributors, and electronic manufacturing service providers, or EMSs.
We coordinate our sales, marketing, and manufacturing organizations by strategic customer account and globally by region.
Results of Operations - Three Months Ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 



Our net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $93.2 million, or $0.55 per share, compared to net income of $35.5 million, or $0.21 per share, for the three months ended December 31, 2016.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net sales in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 increased $91.0 million or 26.7%, to $431.8 million compared to $340.8 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
The increase in revenue includes sales of $90.5 million in our Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment that are attributable to our acquisition of the AB Electronic sensing and control (“S&C”) business in early October 2017.
Global market conditions remained favorable, contributing to higher overall demand, primarily in the automotive, telecommunications, and consumer markets driven by the power of electronics to enhance the user experience in automotive, wearables, smartphones, drones, solid state drives, personal and industrial robots, virtual reality devices, smart home control and security devices enabled through the internet within a broad category called IoT, or Internet of Things.
Sales were favorably impacted by approximately $7.4 million as a result of currency movement due to the strength of the Japanese Yen and Euro vis a vis the U.S. Dollar when compared to the same period last year.
23 



Table of Contents  



The table below represents product group revenues for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Passive Components sales decreased $1.5 million, or 0.6% to $229.5 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to sales of $231.0 million during the same period last year.
Total interconnect, sensing and control devices product sales including Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices and KCP Resale connectors sales increased $98.1 million to $134.0 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $35.9 million during the same period last year.
This increase is primarily attributable to increased sales resulting from the addition of the S&C business and increased demand in the European automotive markets.
S&C devices accounted for $90.5 million of the increased sales during the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
KDP and KCD Resale sales decreased $5.7 million, or 7.8%, to $68.2 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $73.9 million during the same period last year.
With the addition of S&C, whose sales are currently concentrated in Europe, overall sales percentages decreased in the Asia and Americas regions while sales increased in our Europe region compared to the same three-month period last year.
Sales in the Asian, American, and European markets represented 35.1%, 22.4% and 42.5% of total sales, respectively, for the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
This compares to 45.1%, 29.8% and 25.0% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the same period last year, respectively.
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 39.0% of total sales for the three month period ended December 31, 2017, compared to 43.7% for the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
Such allowance charges were $8.3 million, or 4.9% of gross sales to distributor customers for the three month period ended December 31, 2017, and $5.4 million, or 3.6% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
Applications under such programs for the three month periods ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were approximately $7.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively.
24 



Table of Contents  



Gross profit in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 was $82.1 million, compared to a gross profit of $79.4 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
This overall increase in dollars is primarily attributable to higher sales.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended December 31, 2017 was 19.0% compared to 23.3% for the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
Costs due to currency movement were unfavorably impacted by $9.1 million when compared to the same period last year.
For the three month period ended December 31, 2016, charges of $12.9 million related to the intellectual property damages award were almost fully offset by $12.5 million from increased sales prices for those advanced ceramic capacitors.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 were $36.8 million, or 8.5% of net sales, compared to $28.5 million, or 8.3% of net sales, in the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
The overall increase in these expenses is primarily due to higher selling expenses resulting from the increase in sales and the effects of purchase accounting adjustments for intangible assets related to the S&C acquisition.
Income from operations was $45.3 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $50.9 million in the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
This decrease was a result of the factors described above.
Other income, net, was $2.2 million for the three month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $1.4 million for the same three month period last year.
The provision for income tax for the three month period ended December 31, 2017 was $140.8 million compared to $16.8 million for the three month period ended December 31, 2016.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was enacted in the U.S.
This was the primary reason for a change in AVX’s global tax rate estimate for the fiscal year ending March 2018, resulting in a blended estimated global tax rate of 27% for fiscal 2018.
The transition is accompanied by a one-time tax, effective December 31, 2017, on all U.S.-based corporate groups’ accumulated foreign earnings as yet untaxed by the U.S., assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This estimated one-time tax was recorded in the results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, and was approximately $75.6 million, which is payable in installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
In addition, on December 21, 2017, the French Parliament enacted the Finance Law for 2018, which reduces France’s statutory corporate tax rate from its present 33.33% to 25%, in stages over the next five years.
This rate decrease resulted in an estimated net decrease in AVX’s French net deferred tax assets and liabilities of $14.3 million, which is also reflected as a discrete charge in this quarter’s tax provision.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net loss for the three month period ended December 31, 2017 was $93.2 million compared to net income of $35.5 million for the same three month period last year.
25 



Table of Contents  



Results of Operations – Nine Months Ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 



Our net loss for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $26.9 million, or $0.16 per share, compared to net income of $91.9 million, or $0.55 per share, for the nine months ended December 31, 2016.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net sales in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 increased $132.7 million, or 13.5%, to $1,115.8 million compared to $983.1 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
The increase in revenue includes sales of $90.5 million in our Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment that are attributable to our acquisition of S&C as described above.
In addition, the increase in revenue was also attributable to higher volumes across most of our markets in Passive Components resulting from steadily improving global market conditions reflecting higher overall demand, primarily in the automotive, telecommunications, and consumer markets driven by the power of electronics to enhance the user experience such as in automotive, wearables, smartphones, drones, solid state drives, personal and industrial robots, virtual reality devices, smart home control, and security devices enabled through the IoT.
The net impact of currency movement due to the strength of the Japanese Yen and Euro vis a vis the U.S. Dollar had a favorable impact on sales across all product lines of $6.4 million when compared to the same nine month period last year.
The table below represents product group revenues for the nine months ended December 31, 2016 and 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Passive Components sales increased $33.3 million, or 5.1% to $689.4 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to sales of $656.1 million during the same nine month period last year.
Total interconnect, sensing and control devices product sales, including Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices and KCP Resale connectors, increased $104.3 million to $214.4 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $110.1 million during the same period last year.
26 



Table of Contents  



KDP and KCD Resale sales decreased $4.8 million, or 2.2%, to $212.0 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $216.8 million during the same period last year.
With the addition of S&C, whose sales are currently concentrated in Europe, overall sales percentages decreased in the Asian and American regions while sales increased in our European region compared to the same nine-month period last year.
Sales in the Asian, American, and European markets represented 39.2%, 26.8% and 34.0% of total sales, respectively, for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017.
This compares to 44.2%, 29.2% and 26.6% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the same period last year, respectively.
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 45.0% of total sales for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017, compared to 45.1% for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
Such allowance charges were $22.6 million, or 4.5% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017, and $19.6 million, or 4.4% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
Applications under such programs for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were approximately $21.9 million and $16.4 million, respectively.
Gross profit in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 was $233.2 million, compared to a gross profit of $211.1 million, in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
This overall increase in dollars is primarily attributable to higher sales.
The decline in gross profit as a percentage of sales is reflective of the sale of higher margin advanced ceramic capacitors during the nine month period ended December 31, 2016 which were the subject of intellectual property litigation and could no longer be sold by us during the nine month period ended December 31, 2017, in addition to increased costs during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 for the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to inventory and fixed assets related to the S&C acquisition.
For the nine month period ended December 31, 2016, gross profit was negatively impacted by approximately 3.0% as a result of $28.1 million of intellectual property damages award costs resulting from litigation with respect to a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California by Presidio Components, Inc., partially offset by $15.3 million from increased sales prices related to those advanced ceramic capacitors.
Costs due to currency movement were unfavorably impacted by approximately $6.9 million when compared to the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 were $100.7 million, or 9.0% of net sales, compared to $89.0 million, or 9.1% of net sales, in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
The overall increase in these expenses is primarily due to higher selling expenses resulting from the increase in sales and the effects of purchase accounting adjustments for intangible assets related to the S&C acquisition.
During the nine month period ended December 31, 2016, we recorded a $3.6 million charge related to estimated environmental remediation costs resulting from legacy environmental issues at an inactive property.
We did not have any similar charges in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017.
Income from operations was $132.5 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $118.5 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
This increase was a result of the factors described above.
Other income, net was $8.4 million for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $9.2 million for the same nine month period last year.
This decrease was primarily due to higher foreign exchange gains resulting from currency fluctuations and a gain on the sale of an idle facility of $1.6 million for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016, partially offset by interest of $2.3 million related to refunded income taxes in the prior quarter ended September 30, 2017.
27 



Table of Contents  



The provision for income tax expense for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 was $167.8 million compared to $35.8 million for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted in the U.S.
The transition is accompanied by a one-time tax, effective December 31, 2017, on all U.S.-based corporate groups’ accumulated foreign earnings as yet untaxed by the U.S., assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This estimated one-time tax was recorded in the results for the quarter ended December 31, 2017, and was approximately $75.6 million, which is payable in eight annual installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
In addition, on December 21, 2017, the French Parliament enacted the Finance Law for 2018, which reduces France’s statutory corporate tax rate from its present 33.33% to 25%, in stages over the next five years.
This rate decrease resulted in an estimated net decrease in AVX’s French net deferred tax assets and liabilities of $14.3 million, which is also reflected as a discrete charge in this quarter’s tax provision.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net loss for the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 was $26.9 million compared to net income of $91.9 million for the same nine month period last year.
Outlook 



Near-Term: 



With uncertain global geopolitical and economic conditions, it is difficult to quantify expectations for the remainder of fiscal 2018.
We also continue to focus on process improvements and enhanced production capabilities in conjunction with our focus on the sales of value-added electronic components to support today’s advanced electronic devices.
Kyocera notified AVX pursuant to the Products Supply and Distribution Agreement in December 2016 of its intent, effective January 1, 2018, to market its manufactured passive component and interconnect products globally using Kyocera’s sales force rather than continuing to have AVX resell such products in the Americas, Europe and Asia.
Kyocera will pay commissions to AVX on sales by Kyocera, in the applicable territories, of products designed into customer applications by AVX prior to January 1, 2018 of 2.0% in calendar year 2018, 1.5% in calendar year 2019, and 1.0% in calendar year 2020.
Sales of Kyocera resale products were $68.2 million and $212.0 million and the related operating profit was $4.7 million and $14.0 million for the three and nine month periods ended December 31, 2017.
AVX notified Kyocera pursuant to the Products Supply and Distribution Agreement in February 2017 of its intent, effective April 1, 2018, to market its manufactured products in Japan using AVX’s sales force rather than continuing to have Kyocera resell such products in this territory.
AVX will pay commissions to Kyocera on sales by AVX, in the applicable territory, of products designed into customer applications by Kyocera prior to April 1, 2018 of 2.0% in fiscal year 2019, 1.5% in fiscal year 2020, and 1.0% in fiscal year 2021.
Sales of AVX resale products by Kyocera were $6.3 million and $16.4 million for the three and nine month periods ended December 31, 2017.
28 



Table of Contents  



On October 2, 2017, AVX completed the acquisition of S&C.
The transaction totaled $150.3 million, net of cash acquired.
The purchase comprises S&C’s subsidiaries located in Austria, China, Germany, India, Mexico, Romania, South Korea, the U.K., and the U.S., including R&D, manufacturing and sales office locations.
Following the end of the period covered by this report, on January 31, 2018, AVX completed its purchase of Ethertronics Inc. for $138.5 million in cash and assumption of $11.5 million in net debt.
In the financial year ended December 31, 2017, Ethertronics generated approximately $90.0 million of revenue.
The transaction is subject to customary post-closing adjustments based on Ethertronics' actual net debt and actual working capital as of closing.
AVX has reviewed and continues to monitor the impact of Brexit.
The British government will negotiate the terms of the U.K.’s future relationship with the E.U.
Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and E.U.
countries and increased regulatory complexities.
Dollars.
Dollars for our financial statements.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our liquidity needs arise primarily from working capital requirements, dividends, and capital expenditures.
Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand.
As of December 31, 2017, we had a current ratio of 6.6 to 1, $1.0 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.2 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings.
On December 22, 2017, the Act was enacted in the U.S.
The transition is accompanied by a one-time tax, effective December 31, 2017, on all U.S.-based corporate groups’ accumulated foreign earnings as yet untaxed by the U.S., assessed at a 15.5% rate on all such earnings held in cash or liquid asset positions and at an 8% rate on all other non-liquid asset positions.
This tax, approximately $75.6 million, is payable in installments over an eight-year period beginning in 2018.
As a result of the Act we will have greater flexibility to redirect our global cash resources where they are needed.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $161.0 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 compared to $160.3 million of cash provided by operating activities in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
Purchases of property and equipment were $65.2 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2017 and $45.6 million in the nine month period ended December 31, 2016.
Expenditures in the current quarter were primarily made in connection with strategic building expansion and equipment purchase activities in our Fountain Inn, South Carolina facilities and our plants in the Czech Republic, Germany, El Salvador, and Malaysia.
We expect to incur total capital expenditures of approximately $80.0 million in fiscal 2018.
The actual amount of capital expenditures will depend upon the outlook for end-market demand and timing of capital projects.
29 



Table of Contents  



On October 2, 2017, AVX completed the acquisition of S&C for $150.3 million, net of cash acquired.
The purchase comprises S&C’s subsidiaries located in Austria, China, Germany, India, Mexico, Romania, South Korea, the U.K., and the U.S., including R&D, manufacturing and sales office locations.
Following the end of the period covered by this report, on January 31, 2018, AVX completed the purchase of Ethertronics Inc. for $138.5 million in cash and assumption of $11.5 million in net debt.
In the financial year ended December 31, 2017, Ethertronics generated approximately $90.0 million of revenue.
The transaction is subject to customary post-closing adjustments based on Ethertronics' actual net debt and actual working capital as of closing.
Historically, our funding is internally generated through operations, investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities and cash on hand.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of December 31, 2017, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, the acquisition of Ethertronics, Inc., and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
The delivery contracts represent routine purchase orders for delivery within three months and payment is due upon receipt.
As of December 31, 2017, we did not have any significant delivery contracts outstanding.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017.
30 



Table of Contents  



   ITEM 3.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    



Our sales are denominated in various foreign currencies in addition to the U.S. Dollar.
Additionally, purchases of resale products from Kyocera may be denominated in Yen.
In order to minimize the effect of movements in currency exchange rates, we periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions.
We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
See Note 12 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of derivative financial instruments.
ITEM 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     



We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As of the end of the period covered in this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.
SEC guidance permits the exclusion of an evaluation of the effectiveness of a registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as they relate to the internal control over financial reporting for an acquired business during the first year following such acquisition.
As discussed in Note 2, “Acquisitions,” the Company acquired S&C in October 2017.
This acquisition represents approximately 21.0% of the Company’s consolidated revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2017, and approximately 3.5% of the Company’s consolidated assets.
Management’s evaluation and conclusion as to the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017 excludes any evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of S&C.
31 



Table of Contents  



   PART II:   OTHER INFORMATION    



   ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    



Please refer to Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings.
ITEM 1A.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS    



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 



On October 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market.
The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock and are available for general corporate purposes.
We did not make any repurchases in the three month period ended December 31, 2017.
As of December 31, 2017, there were 3,067,074 shares that may yet be repurchased under this program.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



32 



Table of Contents  



Signature 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, and the undersigned also has signed this report in his capacity as the registrant’s Vice President of Corporate Finance (Principal Accounting Officer).
Date: February 8, 2018 



  AVX Corporation       



  By:   /s/ Michael E. Hufnagel       



    Michael E. Hufnagel       



    Vice President of Corporate Finance        



33
