ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
3  



 Table of Contents   



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
4  



 Table of Contents   



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 



(in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
5  



 Table of Contents   



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
6  



 Table of Contents   



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 



 (in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
7  



 Table of Contents   



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



1.
Basis of Presentation: 



The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
The Company has prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  March 31, 2019.
During the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, there were no significant changes to any critical accounting policies or to the methodology used in determining estimates including those related to investment securities, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies.
During the six month period ended  September 30, 2019, goodwill increased by $10,896 due to the purchase of Chengdu OK New Energy ("COKNE") and was partially offset by foreign currency translation.
Reclassifications 



Certain amounts in the prior year consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to the current year presentation.
Relevant New Accounting Standards 



In 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases”.
This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position.
The Company adopted this guidance effective  April 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective method and utilized the optional transition method under which the Company will continue to apply the legacy guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 840, including its disclosure requirements, in the comparative period presented.
In addition, the Company elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which permits the following: a) carrying forward the historical lease classification, b) not separating lease components from non-lease components within the Company’s facility lease contracts, c) not presenting comparative periods but rather recording a cumulative catch-up during fiscal 2020, and d) electing, by asset class, not to record on the balance sheet a lease whose term is twelve months or less including reasonably certain renewal options.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 for the fiscal year beginning  April 1, 2019, the Company recorded initial operating lease right-of-use assets of $18,351 and related operating lease liabilities of $18,053.
Right-of-use assets are included in “Other assets” on the Company’s Balance Sheet as of  September 30, 2019.
Please refer to Note 2 for additional information.
8  



 Table of Contents   



In  June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses: Measurements of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” This standard requires the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses held at amortized cost.
This new standard replaces the use of forward-looking information to estimate credit losses and requires credit losses for available for sale debt securities to be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than a reduction in the amortized cost basis.
This update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019.
Management is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements.
In  August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
The guidance is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Additionally, in  October 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-16, “Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Inclusion of the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) Overnight Index Swap (OIS) Rate as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes”, which permits use of the OIS rate based on the SOFR as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under Topic 815.
This update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods.
For entities that had not yet adopted ASU 2017-12, the concurrent adoption of ASU 2018-16 is required.
The Company concurrently adopted ASU 2017-12 and ASU 2018-16 effective  April 1, 2019.
The adoption of these standards has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, "Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income."
The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years and early adoption is permitted.
The adoption of this standard has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement – Disclosure Framework – Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.” This standard removes, adds and modifies certain disclosure requirements in the existing framework.
ASU 2018-13 removes the following disclosure requirements: (i) the amount of and reasons for transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and (ii) the entity’s valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements.
ASU 2018-13 adds the following disclosure requirements: (i) provide information about the measurement uncertainty of Level 3 fair value measurements as of the reporting date rather than a point in the future, (ii) disclose changes in unrealized gains and losses related to Level 3 measurements for the period included in other comprehensive income, and (iii) disclose for Level 3 measurements the range and weighted average of the significant unobservable inputs and the way it is calculated.
ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after  December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, “Compensation – Retirement Benefits – Defined Benefit Plans – General.” This standard removes certain disclosures that are not considered cost beneficial, clarifies certain required disclosures and added additional disclosures.
The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2020, and early adoption is permitted.
The amendments in ASU 2018-14 would need to be applied on a retrospective basis.
Management is currently assessing the impact ASU 2018-14 will have on our disclosures.
In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract.” This guidance reduces the complexity for the accounting for costs of implementing a cloud computing service arrangement and aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
This update is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company early adopted this standard effective  April 1, 2019, utilizing the prospective approach to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption.
The adoption of ASU 2018-15 has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
9  



 Table of Contents   



2.
Leases: 



As discussed in Note 1, the Company adopted the new leasing standard using the modified retrospective approach with an effective date of  April 1, 2019.
Prior year financial statements were not recast under the new standard and, therefore, those amounts are not presented below.
We elected the package of transition provisions available for expired or existing contracts, which allowed us to carry forward our historical assessments of (1) whether contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification and (3) initial direct costs.
The Company’s operating leases consist of automobiles, machinery and equipment, and real estate, including office, storage and parking spaces.
The duration of these leases range from 1 to 6 years.
The Company has no financing lease arrangements.
For leases with terms greater than 12 months, the Company recorded the related right-of-use asset and lease liability at the present value of lease payments over the term.
Leases with a term 12 months or less at inception are not recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Some of our leases contain variable rental escalation clauses which are recognized when incurred.
Additionally, some of our leases contain renewal options and/or termination options that are factored into the determination of lease payments and lease terms when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise these options.
The Company recognizes lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases beginning in fiscal year 2020 and later, we account for lease components (e.g., fixed payments including rent, real estate taxes and insurance costs) separately from the non-lease components (e.g., common area maintenance costs).
When available, we use the rate implicit in the lease to discount lease payments to present value; however, most of our leases do not provide a readily determinable implicit rate.
Therefore, we must estimate our incremental borrowing rate to discount the lease payments based on information available at lease commencement.
Our incremental borrowing rate is based on a credit-adjusted risk-free rate at commencement date, which best approximates a secured rate over a similar term of lease.
The following table presents our lease balances: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following table presents our lease costs for operating leases: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The Company paid $1,839 and $4,090 for its operating leases in the three and six months ended  September 30, 2019, respectively which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The weighted-average remaining lease term for the Company’s operating leases is 3.5 years and the weighted-average discount rate is 3.25% as of  September 30, 2019.
10  



 Table of Contents   



The following table reconciles the undiscounted cash flows for each of the first five years and total of the remaining years to the operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet as of  September 30, 2019: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



As of  April 1, 2019, the Company had the following future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable leases prior to the adoption of the new lease standard: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



3.
Earnings per Share: 



Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period.
Stock options and unvested service-based RSU awards make up the common stock equivalents and are computed using the treasury stock method.
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three and six month periods ending  September 30, 2018 and 2019.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 11  



 Table of Contents   



4.
Please refer to Note 10, "Segment and Geographic Information," for disaggregated revenue information.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 12  



 Table of Contents   



5.
Fair Value: 



Fair Value Hierarchy: 



The fair value framework requires the categorization of assets and liabilities into three levels based upon the assumptions (inputs) used to value the assets or liabilities.
Level 1 provides the most reliable measure of fair value, whereas Level 3 generally requires significant management judgment.
The three levels are defined as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



During the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



13  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



(1) The market value of the assets held in the trust for the non-qualified deferred compensation program is included as an asset and as a liability as the trust’s assets are both assets of the Company and also a liability as they are available to general creditors in certain circumstances.
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss).
Realized gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and gains and losses on derivatives not designated as hedges are recorded in other income.
Valuation Techniques: 



The following describes valuation techniques used to appropriately value our assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan and derivatives.
Assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan 



Assets valued using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the table above represent assets from our non-qualified deferred compensation program.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
Derivatives 



We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market.
At  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
14  



 Table of Contents   



6.
Financial Instruments and Investments in Securities: 



At  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities.
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost.
We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity.
All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income.
Investments in held-to-maturity securities, recorded at amortized cost, were as follows: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity investments at  September 30, 2019, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
The estimated fair value of these investments are based on valuation inputs that include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker and dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and reference data, which are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy.
Actual maturities  may differ from contractual maturities because issuers  may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



7.
Inventories: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 15  



 Table of Contents   



8.
Commitments and Contingencies: 



We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or non-U.S., state or local regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs.
At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities.
We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs.
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation.
As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions.
On  June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts.
AVX has substantially completed its obligations pursuant to such agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford with respect to the satisfaction of AVX’s federal law requirements.
The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site.
AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation.
Further, the Site and the remediation  may be subject to additional scrutiny under other statutory procedures which could also add to the cost of remediation.
During the year ended  March 31, 2019 we increased our estimated accrual for work to be done at the Site by $8,312 pursuant to discussions with the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection and our environmental engineers.
Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site.
We had total reserves of approximately $26,371 and $25,329 at  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, respectively, related to various environmental matters and sites, including those discussed above.
These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $5,749 and $4,507 in accrued expenses at  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, respectively, and $20,622 and $20,822 in other non-current liabilities at  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, respectively.
The amounts recorded for identified environmental liabilities are based on estimates.
Periodically, we review amounts recorded and adjust them to reflect additional legal and technical information that becomes available.
Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, regulatory actions, technology, and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure.
On  April 19, 2016, the Canadian Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (the “MoE”) issued a Director’s Order naming AVX Corporation, and others, as responsible parties with respect to a location in Hamilton, Ontario that was at one time the site of operations of Aerovox Canada, a former subsidiary of Aerovox Corporation, a predecessor of AVX.
AVX has taken the position that any liability of Aerovox Canada for such site under the laws of Canada cannot be imposed on AVX.
At present, it is unclear whether the MoE will seek to enforce such Canadian order against AVX, and whether, in the event it does so, AVX will have any liability under applicable law.
AVX intends to contest any such course of action that  may be taken by the MoE.
In connection with the same location, Union Gas Limited and Coca-Cola Refreshments Canada Company filed suits in the Superior Court of Justice for Ontario, Canada, against AVX Corporation, Aerovox Corp. and Cooper Industries, LLC seeking to recover the costs of remediation of the site and for damages associated with alleged contamination of the site.
Those suits were filed on  April 18, 2018, but not served on AVX until  October 11, 2018, and are in their initial stages.
AVX is considering its legal options but intends to vigorously defend these matters.
We also operate, or did at one time, on other sites that  may have potential future environmental issues as a result of activities at sites during AVX’s long history of manufacturing operations or prior to the start of operations by AVX.
A separate account receivable is recorded for any indemnified costs.
16  



 Table of Contents   



We are not involved in any pending or threatened environmental proceedings that would require curtailment of our operations.
We continually expend funds to ensure that our facilities comply with applicable environmental regulations.
New environmental regulations  may be enacted and we cannot determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with such regulations.
On  April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v. AVX Corporation.
This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents.
On  January 26, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in the first phase of a segmented trial and a mixed verdict in the second phase of a segmented trial, and found damages to Greatbatch in the amount of $37,500, which was recorded in fiscal 2016.
That verdict was later vacated by the court on  March 30, 2018.
In a new trial, the amount of damages (excluding interest) was determined by a jury to be $22,100 on  January 15, 2019 resulting in a favorable accrual adjustment of $13,900 for the year ended in  March 31, 2019.
During the year ended  March 31, 2019 the Company made a payment of $22,100 to an escrow account which is classified within “Other assets”.
Additionally, during the three months ended  September 30, 2019, the Company made a payment of $5,646, representing pre-judgement interest, to an escrow account which is classified within "Other assets".
However, the matter is now on appeal which could result in a material impact to the accrual for this case in the future.
On  September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp.
On  April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio.
On  August 17, 2016, the court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting ATC from manufacturing or selling the related products after  November 16, 2016.
Subsequently, on  October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until  March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to  June 17, 2016.
In  June 2018, the District Court set the amount of royalties and re-issued the injunction.
An appeal has been filed from both decisions.
As of  September 30, 2019, we had total reserves of $59,752 plus accrued interest in accrued expenses with respect to the two intellectual property cases discussed above.
The amounts recorded are based on estimated outcomes.
Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information that becomes available.
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market.
The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on  October 2, 2014.
The cases in Canada have not been consolidated.
These cases are still in progress.
AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases.
17  



 Table of Contents   



9.
Comprehensive Income (Loss): 



Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders.
The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges.
Other comprehensive income (loss) includes the following components:  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Please see Note 11 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2018 and 2019.
Please see Note 12 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income during the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2018 and 2019.
18  



 Table of Contents   



10.
Segment and Geographic Information: 



Our operating segments are based on the types of products from which we generate revenues.
We are organized into a product line organization with four product groups and two reportable segments.
Historically, KED Resale reported as its own product group, but it has now been combined with Advanced Components.
The product groups of Ceramic, Tantalum, and Advanced Components have been aggregated into the Electronic Components reportable segment in accordance with the SEC’s aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds.
The aggregation criteria consist of similar economic characteristics, products and services, production processes, customer classes, and distribution channels.
The Electronic Components segment consists primarily of surface mount and leaded ceramic capacitors, RF thick and thin film components, surface mount and leaded tantalum capacitors, polymer tantalum capacitors, surface mount and leaded film capacitors, ceramic and film power capacitors, super capacitors, EMI filters (bolt in and surface mount), thick and thin film packages of multiple passive integrated components, varistors, thermistors, inductors, resistive products, and passive and active electronic antennas and antenna systems manufactured by us or purchased from other manufacturers for resale.
The Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment consists primarily of automotive sensing and control devices and automotive, telecom, and memory connectors manufactured by or for AVX.
Sales and operating results from these reportable segments are shown in the tables below.
In addition, we have a corporate administration group consisting of finance, legal, environmental, health & safety, and administrative activities.
There are no intersegment revenues.
We allocate the costs of shared resources between segments based on each segment’s usage of the shared resources.
Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments.
The tables below present information about reportable segments: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



19  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following geographic data is based upon net sales generated by operations located within particular geographic areas.
Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 20  



 Table of Contents   



11.
Pension Plans: 



Net periodic pension cost for our defined benefit plans consisted of the following for the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2018 and 2019: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Based on current actuarial computations, during the six months ended  September 30, 2019, we made contributions of $791 to the international plans.
We made no contributions to the U.S. plans during the six months ended  September 30, 2019.
12.
Derivative Financial Instruments: 



We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the normal course of business.
We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy.
The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than four months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales denominated in various currencies.
These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges.
The effectiveness of the cash flow hedges is determined by comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged transaction, both of which are based on forward rates.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on these cash flow hedges is initially recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Once the hedged transaction is recognized, the gain or loss is recognized in our statement of operations.
At  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, respectively, the following forward contracts were entered into to hedge against the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates for certain forecasted sales and purchases: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 21  



 Table of Contents  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, net pre-tax gains of $116 and $628, respectively, were recognized in other comprehensive income (loss).
In addition, during the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, net pre-tax losses of $1,026 and $1,418, respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pre-tax gains of $531 and $1,224, respectively, were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations.
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities.
The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as the remeasurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses.
At  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 22  



 Table of Contents   



For these derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments during the three and six month periods ended  September 30, 2019, losses of $716 and $773, respectively, on hedging contracts were recognized in other income (loss), along with the approximately $503 and $780, respectively, in exchange losses that were recognized in other income (loss) in the accompanying statement of operations.
At  March 31, 2019 and  September 30, 2019, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $216,555 and $239,603, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen.
13.
Subsequent Events: 



On  October 23, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended  September 30, 2019.
The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on  November 8, 2019 and will be disbursed on November 22, 2019.
23  



 Table of Contents   



  ITEM 2.
Our expectations and assumptions are expressed in good faith and we believe there is a reasonable basis for them.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
There were no significant changes to critical accounting policies, judgments involved in applying those policies, or the methodology used in determining estimates with respect to those related to investment securities, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, property and equipment, and contingencies, during the three and six month periods ended September 30, 2019.  



Business Overview 



AVX is a leading worldwide manufacturer, supplier, and reseller of a broad line of electronic components, interconnect, sensing and control devices, and related products.
The Electronic Components segment consists primarily of surface mount and leaded ceramic capacitors, RF thick and thin film components, surface mount and leaded tantalum capacitors, polymer tantalum capacitors, surface mount and leaded film capacitors, ceramic and film power capacitors, super capacitors, EMI filters (bolt in and surface mount), thick and thin film packages of multiple integrated components, varistors, thermistors, inductors, resistive products, and passive and active electronic antennas and antenna systems manufactured by us or purchased from other manufacturers for resale.
The Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment consists primarily of automotive sensing and control devices and automotive, telecom, and memory connectors manufactured by, or for, AVX.
Our customers consist of multi-national original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent electronic component distributors, and electronic manufacturing service providers, or EMSs.
We coordinate our sales, marketing, and manufacturing organizations by strategic customer account and globally by region.
Results of Operations - Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2019 



Our net income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $33.5 million, or $0.20 per share, compared to net income of $72.1 million, or $0.43 per share, for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net sales in the three month period ended September 30, 2019 decreased $79.0 million or 17.3%, to $377.3 million compared to $456.3 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2018.
Additionally, inventory levels in the sales channel remain high, particularly at our distribution customers in the Americas and Europe, contributing to lower overall demand, primarily in the automotive, cellular, and consumer markets.
Overall demand for our products is driven by the power of electronics to enhance the user experience in automotive, wearables, smartphones, drones, solid state drives, personal and industrial robots, virtual reality devices, smart home control and security devices enabled through the internet within a broad category called IoT, or Internet of Things.
Sales were unfavorably impacted by approximately $2.1 million as a result of currency movement due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar as compared to the Japanese Yen and Euro when compared to the same period last year.
25  



 Table of Contents   



The table below represents product group revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2019.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Electronic Components sales decreased $75.6 million, or 22.8% to $256.6 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to sales of $332.2 million during the same period last year driven by unfavorable global macro-economic conditions partially offset by increased electronic content in automobiles, global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products.
Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product sales decreased $3.5 million to $120.6 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $124.1 million during the same period last year.
This decrease is primarily attributable to a decrease of automotive manufacturing across all regions in addition to unfavorable currency movement due to the stronger U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro.
Sales in the Asian, American, and European markets represented 30%, 28% and 42% of total sales, respectively, for the three month period ended September 30, 2019.
This compares to 32%, 28% and 40% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the same period last year, respectively.
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 36% of total sales for the three month period ended September 30, 2019, compared to 43% for the three month period ended September 30, 2018.
Such allowance charges were $5.3 million, or 3.9% of gross sales to distributor customers for the three month period ended September 30, 2019, and $7.1 million, or 3.7% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the three month period ended September 30, 2018.
Applications under such programs for the three month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were approximately $4.9 million and $6.7 million, respectively.
Gross profit in the three month period ended September 30, 2019 was $79.5 million, compared to a gross profit of $126.5 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2018.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended September 30, 2019 was 21.1% compared to 27.7% for the three month period ended September 30, 2018.
Costs due to currency movement were favorably impacted by $11.4 million when compared to the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three month period ended September 30, 2019 were $42.1 million, or 11.2% of net sales, compared to $40.8 million, or 8.9% of net sales, in the three month period ended September 30, 2018.
When compared to the same quarter last year, the overall increase in these expenses is primarily due to higher legal fees partially offset by lower selling expenses as a result of the lower sales.
26  



 Table of Contents   



Income from operations was $37.4 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $85.6 million in the three month period ended September 30, 2018.
This decrease was a result of the factors described above.
Other income, net, was $3.6 million for the three month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $3.3 million for the same three month period last year reflecting higher interest income.
The provision for income tax for the three month period ended September 30, 2019 was $7.6 million compared to $16.9 million for the three month period ended September 30, 2018.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 30, 2019 was approximately 19%.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the three month period ended September 30, 2019 was $33.5 million compared to net income of $72.1 million for the same three month period last year.
Results of Operations – Six Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2019 



Our net income for the six months ended September 30, 2019 was $88.1 million, or $0.52 per share, compared to $128.0 million, or $0.76 per share, for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net sales in the six month period ended September 30, 2019 decreased $131.3 million, or 14.4%, to $779.1 million compared to $910.4 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
The table below represents product group revenues for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2019.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Electronic Component sales decreased $117.3 million, or 18.0% to $534.1 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to sales of $651.4 million during the same period last year driven by unfavorable global macro-economic conditions partially offset by increased electronic content in automobiles, global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products.
Total Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices decreased $14.0 million, or 5.4%, to $245.0 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $259.0 million during the same period last year.
Sales in the Asian, American, and European markets represented 30%, 28% and 42% of total sales, respectively, for the six month period ended September 30, 2019.
This compares to 32%, 26% and 42% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the same period last year, respectively.
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 37.0% of total sales for the six month period ended September 30, 2019, compared to 41.2% for the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
Such allowance charges were $10.6 million, or 3.7% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the six month period ended September 30, 2019, and $13.5 million, or 3.6% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
Applications under such programs for the six month period ended September 30, 2018 and 2019 were approximately $12.9 million and $10.0 million, respectively.
Gross profit in the six month period ended September 30, 2019 was 23.1% of sales, or $180.2 million, compared to a gross profit of 25.8% of sales, or $234.8 million, in the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
Costs due to currency movement were favorably impacted by $19.4 million when compared to the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the six month period ended September 30, 2019 were $84.0 million, or 10.8% of net sales, compared to $81.2 million, or 8.9% of net sales, in the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
Income from operations was $96.2 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $153.7 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
This decrease was a result of the factors described above.
Other income, net was $8.1 million for the six month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $6.0 million for the same six month period last year.
This increase was primarily due to higher interest income and lower foreign exchange losses from currency fluctuations.
The provision for income tax for the six month period ended September 30, 2019 was $16.1 million compared to $31.7 million for the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
Our effective tax rate for the six month period ended September 30, 2019 was approximately 15% compared to approximately 18% for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
This decrease in the effective tax rate is due to discrete tax benefits occurring during the six months ended September 30, 2019.
This benefit is principally due to an increase in foreign tax credits on foreign withholding obligations and the release of a partial valuation allowance of a subsidiary in Korea.
Excluding these adjustments, the effective tax rate would have been approximately 20% for the six months ended September 30, 2019.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the six month period ended September 30, 2019 was $88.1 million compared to $128.0 million for the same six month period last year.
Outlook 



Near-Term: 



With ever changing and unpredictable global geopolitical and economic conditions, it is difficult to quantify expectations for the remainder of fiscal 2020.
We also continue to focus on process improvements and enhanced production capabilities in conjunction with our focus on the sales of value-added electronic components to support today’s advanced electronic use products.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our liquidity needs arise primarily from working capital requirements, dividends, capital expenditures, and acquisitions.
Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand.
As of September 30, 2019, we had a current ratio of 6.0 to 1, $774.5 million of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.4 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $58.6 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2019 compared to $138.5 million of cash provided by operating activities in the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
Purchases of property and equipment were $71.6 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2019 and $65.0 million in the six month period ended September 30, 2018.
Expenditures in the current period were primarily made in connection with strategic building expansion and equipment purchase activities in our Fountain Inn, South Carolina facilities and our plants in El Salvador and Malaysia.
The actual amount of capital expenditures will depend upon the outlook for end-market demand and timing of capital projects.
On September 10, 2019, AVX completed its purchase of Chengdu OK New Energy ("COKNE") for $9.9 million in cash, net of cash acquired.
COKNE develops and manufactures supercapacitors.
Historically, our operating funding is internally generated through operations, investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities and cash on hand.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of September 30, 2019, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
The delivery contracts represent routine purchase orders for delivery within three months and payment is due upon receipt.
As of September 30, 2019, we did not have any significant delivery contracts outstanding.
Commitments and Contingencies 



Information related to commitments and contingencies can be found in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, as well as in Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
ITEM 3.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     



Our sales are denominated in various foreign currencies in addition to the U.S. Dollar.
In order to minimize the effect of movements in currency exchange rates, we periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions.
See Note 12 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of derivative financial instruments.
ITEM 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES      



We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As of the end of the period covered in this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.
PART II:   OTHER INFORMATION     



  ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     



Please refer to Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings.
30  



 Table of Contents   



  ITEM 1A.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 31  



 Table of Contents   



Signature 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, and the undersigned also has signed this report in his capacity as the registrant’s Chief Financial Officer.
Date: November 6, 2019 



  AVX Corporation           



  By:   /s/ Michael Hufnagel           



      Michael Hufnagel           



      Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer
