ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) 



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Balance Sheets (unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
3 



Table of Contents  



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
4 



Table of Contents  



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited) 



(in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
5 



Table of Contents  



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) 



 (in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
6 



Table of Contents  



AVX Corporation and Subsidiaries 



Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



(in thousands, except per share data) 



1.
Basis of Presentation: 



The consolidated financial statements of AVX Corporation and its subsidiaries (“AVX” or the “Company”) include all accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated.
We have prepared the accompanying financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC for interim financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Revenue Recognition: 



All products are built to specification and tested by AVX or our suppliers for adherence to such specification before shipment to customers.
The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to its sales.
We recognize revenue as performance obligations are satisfied, which is when the customer takes control of the products as they are shipped to or received by the customer in accordance with the terms of the agreement of sale.
There are general product warranties within our contracts, as the Company warrants that products will function as expected in accordance with the specifications per the contract.
These warranties cannot be purchased by the customer separately and accordingly these warranties are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
Payment terms for the Company’s sales are generally less than 90 days.
Substantially all of the Company’s receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASC 606 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component in the determination of the transaction price.
We evaluate gross versus net presentation on revenues from products purchased and resold in accordance with the revenue recognition criteria outlined in ASC 606.
Based on the evaluation of our resale arrangements with Kyocera, including consideration of the primary indicators set forth in ASC 606, we record revenue related to products purchased and resold on a gross basis.
The Company pays commissions to sales representatives on a per-sale basis and applies the practical expedient available within ASC 340.
Accordingly, commissions are expensed as incurred.
The Company recognizes the estimated variable consideration to be received as revenue and records a related reduction to accounts receivable or as an accrued expense for the consideration not expected to be received, based upon its estimate of credits issued or products returned under the sales allowance programs described below.
We utilize the “portfolio approach” practical expedient in ASC 606, which allows entities to apply the guidance to a portfolio of contracts with similar characteristics because the effects on the financial statements of this approach would not differ materially from applying the guidance to individual contracts.
Using the “portfolio approach,” we believe we have an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
Returns 



Sales revenue and cost of sales reported in the statement of operations are reduced to reflect estimated returns.
The liability accrued reflects the variable consideration not expected to be received.
The estimated value of the return to customer’s inventory is recorded as an asset.
These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns.
When the product is returned and verified, the customer is given credit against their accounts receivable.
Rather, we believe our use of the “portfolio approach” provides an adequate basis to assess the reasonableness and reliability of our estimates for each program.
Distributor Stock Rotation Program 



Stock rotation is a program whereby distributor customers are allowed to return, for credit, qualified inventory, semi-annually, equal to a certain percentage, primarily limited to 5% of the previous six months net sales.
An asset is recorded for the estimated value of returned product.
These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future returns under the stock rotation program.
When the product is returned and verified, the distributor is given credit against their accounts receivable.
Distributor Ship-from-Stock and Debit Program 



Ship-from-Stock and Debit (“ship and debit”) is a program designed to assist distributor customers in meeting competitive prices in the marketplace on sales to their end customers.
Ship and debit programs require a request from the distributor for a pricing adjustment for a specific part for a sale to the distributor’s end customer from the distributor’s stock.
The pricing adjustment is deemed variable consideration.
Ship and debit authorizations may cover current and future distributor activity for a specific part for sale to their customer.
These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments.
We believe that these procedures enable us to make reliable estimates of future credits under the ship and debit program.
At the time the distributor ships the part from stock, the distributor debits us for the authorized pricing adjustment.
Relevant New Accounting Standards 



In 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” This guidance modifies how an entity will determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized.
The Company adopted this guidance effective April 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method, with no material impact on our results of operations.
Please refer to Note 3 for additional information.
In February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” This guidance changes the requirements for inclusion of certain right-of-use assets and the associated lease liabilities to be included in a statement of financial position.
The classification criteria maintains the distinction between finance leases and operating leases.
Regarding finance leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize interest on the lease liability separate from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statement of comprehensive income, and 3) classify repayments of the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities and payments of interest on the lease liability and variable lease payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
Regarding operating leases, lessees are required to 1) recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments, in the statement of financial position, 2) recognize a single lease cost, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term on a generally straight-line basis, and 3) classify all cash payments within operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
This guidance is effective for public companies for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Derivatives and Hedging.” The standard aims to align the designation and measurement guidance for qualifying hedging relationships and the presentation of hedge results for cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with risk management activities.
The guidance is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods.
Early adoption is permitted in any interim period after issuance.
Management is currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
8 



Table of Contents  



2.
Acquisitions: 



We used the acquisition method of accounting to record the below transactions in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” In accordance with the acquisition method, the purchase price is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess being allocated to goodwill.
Factors that contributed to the recognition of goodwill include expected synergies and the trained workforce.
The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
On October 2, 2017, AVX acquired the AB Electronics sensing and control business from TT Electronics, PLC, for $162,038, net of cash acquired.
Now named Sensing and Control (“S&C”) and consolidated with our Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment (formerly AVX Interconnect) for financial reporting purposes, the acquisition enhances AVX’s position in the automotive business and provides further opportunities for expansion and growth.
The results of operations for S&C since the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



We recorded approximately $18,168 of identifiable intangible assets and $26,049 of goodwill pertaining to this acquisition.
The acquired intangible assets relate to the AB Electronics trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over one, eleven, and six years respectively.
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information is provided for the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018 as though S&C had been acquired as of April 1, 2017.
Unaudited pro forma net sales for the three month period ended June 30, 2017 would have been $415,126 with the inclusion of S&C's net sales for such period.
We recognized revenue of $97,750 from S&C in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
9 



Table of Contents  



On January 31, 2018, AVX acquired Ethertronics, Inc. ("Ethertronics") for $128,242 net of cash and debt acquired.
The Ethertronics business is now named AVX Antenna and is consolidated with our Electronic Components segment.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The results of operations for AVX Antenna since the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.
We recorded approximately $64,800 of identifiable intangible assets and $75,625 of goodwill.
The acquired intangible assets relate to the Ethertronics trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over ten, ten, and thirteen years, respectively.
We recognized revenue of $31,941 from AVX Antenna in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
On April 30, 2018, AVX, through its subsidiary AVX Interconnect Europe GmbH, acquired KUMATEC Sondermaschinenbau & Kunststoffverarbeitung GmbH (“Kumatec”) for a consideration of approximately $12,305, net of cash acquired and debt assumed, subject to customary post-closing adjustments.
Now named Kumatec and consolidated with our Interconnect, Sensing and Control segment, the purchase of Kumatec provides AVX with additional manufacturing capabilities and new business opportunities.
We recorded approximately $3,189 of identifiable intangible assets and $7,815 of goodwill.
The acquired intangible assets relate to the Kumatec trade name, existing technology and customer relationships which are being amortized over six years.
We recognized revenue of $2,097 from Kumatec in the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
3.
Revenue Recognition: 



We adopted ASC 606 effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
We elected the practical expedient to only apply the standard to contracts that were not completed at the effective date.
The impact of implementing this standard had no impact on our revenue recognition for the uncompleted contracts and accordingly no cumulative adjustment was made to the opening balance of retained earnings as of April 1, 2018.
10 



Table of Contents  



We identified a change in how we record right-of-return liabilities which impacts Current Assets and Current Liabilities.
The change is primarily due to how ASC 606 defines a right-of-return contract liability.
Reference Note 11, "Segment and Geographic Information," for disaggregated revenue information.
4.
Earnings per Share: 



Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.
Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the dilutive effect of potential common stock equivalents during the period.
Stock options and unvested service-based RSU awards make up the common stock equivalents and are computed using the treasury stock method.
The table below represents the basic and diluted earnings per share and sets forth the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding and potential common stock equivalents for the three month periods ending June 30, 2017 and 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



(1)   



Common stock equivalents not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the impact would have been anti-dilutive were 161 shares and 55 shares for the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018, respectively.
5.
Trade Accounts Receivable and Contract Liabilities: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



11 



Table of Contents  



Charges related to allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to selling, general and administrative expenses.
Please refer to Note 3, “Revenue Recognition,” for additional information.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



6.
Fair Value: 



Fair Value Hierarchy: 



The fair value framework requires the categorization of assets and liabilities into three levels based upon the assumptions (inputs) used to value the assets or liabilities.
Level 1 provides the most reliable measure of fair value, whereas Level 3 generally requires significant management judgment.
The three levels are defined as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



12 



Table of Contents  



During the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, there have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels within the fair value hierarchy.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



(1) The market value of the assets held in the trust for the non-qualified deferred compensation program is included as an asset and as a liability as the trust’s assets are both assets of the Company and also a liability as they are available to general creditors in certain circumstances.
Unrealized gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss).
Realized gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and gains and losses on derivatives not designated as hedges are recorded in other income.
13 



Table of Contents  



Valuation Techniques: 



The following describes valuation techniques used to appropriately value our assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan and derivatives.
Assets held in the non-qualified deferred compensation plan 



Assets valued using Level 1 and Level 2 inputs in the table above represent assets from our non-qualified deferred compensation program.
The funds in the non-qualified deferred compensation program are valued based on the number of shares in the funds using a price per share traded in an active market.
Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other-than-temporary.
If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, among other factors, we evaluate general market conditions, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and whether or not we expect to recover the security's entire amortized cost.
Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.
Derivatives 



We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities generally less than four months, designated as cash flow hedges, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
We also use derivatives not designated as hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These derivatives are used to offset currency changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities.
Fair values for all of our derivative financial instruments are valued by adjusting the market spot rate by forward points, based on the date of the contract.
The spot rates and forward points used are an average rate from an actively traded market.
At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, all of our forward contracts are valued using Level 2 measurements.
7.
Financial Instruments and Investments in Securities: 



At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we classified investments in debt securities and time deposits as held-to-maturity securities.
Our long-term and short-term investment securities are accounted for as held-to-maturity securities and are carried at amortized cost.
We have the ability and intent to hold these investments until maturity.
All income generated from the held-to-maturity securities investments are recorded as interest income.
Investments in held-to-maturity securities, recorded at amortized cost, were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



14 



Table of Contents  



The amortized cost and estimated fair value of held-to-maturity investments at June 30, 2018, by contractual maturity, are shown below.
The estimated fair value of these investments are based on valuation inputs that include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker and dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and reference data, which are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



8.
Inventories: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



9.
Commitments and Contingencies: 



We have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), state governmental agencies or other private parties as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), or equivalent non-U.S., state or local laws, for clean-up and response costs associated with certain sites at which remediation is required with respect to prior contamination.
Because CERCLA or such state statutes authorize joint and several liability, the EPA or non-U.S., state or local regulatory authorities could seek to recover all clean-up costs from any one of the PRPs at a site despite the involvement of other PRPs.
At certain sites, financially responsible PRPs other than AVX also are, or have been, involved in site investigation and clean-up activities.
We believe that liability resulting from these sites will be apportioned between AVX and other PRPs.
To resolve our liability at the sites at which we have been named a PRP, we have entered into various administrative orders and consent decrees with federal and state regulatory agencies governing the timing and nature of investigation and remediation.
As is customary, the orders and decrees regarding sites where the PRPs are not themselves implementing the chosen remedy contain provisions allowing the EPA to reopen the agreement and seek additional amounts from settling PRPs in the event that certain contingencies occur, such as the discovery of significant new information about site conditions.
On June 3, 2010, AVX entered into an agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford, pursuant to which AVX is required to perform environmental remediation at a site referred to as the “Aerovox Site” (the “Site”), located in New Bedford, Massachusetts.
AVX has substantially completed its obligations pursuant to such agreement with the EPA and the City of New Bedford with respect to the satisfaction of AVX’s federal law requirements.
The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection has jurisdiction over the balance of the environmental remediation at the Site.
AVX has submitted its proposed remedy, but until the state has approved such proposal, AVX cannot determine if additional groundwater and soil remediation will be required, if substantial material will have to be disposed of offsite, or if additional remediation techniques will be required, any of which could result in a more extensive and costly plan of remediation.
Further, the Site and the remediation may be subject to additional scrutiny under other statutory procedures which could also add to the cost of remediation.
Until all parties agree and remediation is complete, we cannot be certain there will be no additional cost relating to the Site.
We had total reserves of approximately $18,618 and $18,750 at March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively, related to various environmental matters and sites, including those discussed above.
These reserves are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as $3,329 and $3,461 in accrued expenses at March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively, and $15,289 in other non-current liabilities at both March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018.
The amounts recorded for identified environmental liabilities are based on estimates.
Periodically, we review amounts recorded and adjust them to reflect additional legal and technical information that becomes available.
Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, regulatory actions, technology, and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop an estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure.
15 



Table of Contents  



On April 19, 2016, the Canadian Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (the “MoE”) issued a Director’s Order naming AVX Corporation, and others, as responsible parties with respect to a location in Hamilton, Ontario that was at one time the site of operations of Aerovox Canada, a former subsidiary of Aerovox Corporation, a predecessor of AVX.
This Director’s Order follows a draft order issued on November 4, 2015.
AVX has taken the position that any liability of Aerovox Canada for such site under the laws of Canada cannot be imposed on AVX.
At present, it is unclear whether the MoE will seek to enforce such Canadian order against AVX, and whether, in the event it does so, AVX will have any liability under applicable law.
AVX intends to contest any such course of action that may be taken by the MoE.
We also operate, or did at one time, on other sites that may have potential future environmental issues as a result of activities at sites during AVX’s long history of manufacturing operations or prior to the start of operations by AVX.
A separate account receivable is recorded for any indemnified costs.
We are not involved in any pending or threatened environmental proceedings that would require curtailment of our operations.
We continually expend funds to ensure that our facilities comply with applicable environmental regulations.
New environmental regulations may be enacted and we cannot determine the modifications, if any, in our operations that any such future regulations might require, or the cost of compliance with such regulations.
On April 25, 2013, AVX was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware captioned Greatbatch, Inc. v. AVX Corporation.
This case alleged that certain AVX products infringe on one or more of six Greatbatch patents.
On January 26, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff in the first phase of a segmented trial and a mixed verdict in the second phase of a segmented trial, and found damages to Greatbatch in the amount of $37,500, which was recorded in fiscal 2016.
That verdict was later vacated by the court on March 30, 2018.
AVX is continuing to litigate the case.
On September 2, 2014, a subsidiary of AVX, American Technical Ceramics (“ATC”), was named as a defendant in a patent infringement case filed in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California captioned Presidio Components, Inc. v. American Technical Ceramics Corp.
This case alleged that certain ATC products infringe on a Presidio patent.
On April 18, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff and found damages to Presidio.
On August 17, 2016, the court issued a permanent injunction prohibiting ATC from manufacturing or selling the related products after November 16, 2016.
Subsequently, on October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit Court granted AVX’s request for a stay of the permanent injunction whereby ATC was allowed to continue to sell the disputed product until March 17, 2017 to anyone who was a customer prior to June 17, 2016.
As of June 30, 2018, we had total reserves of $73,392 plus accrued interest in accrued expenses with respect to the two intellectual property cases discussed above.
The amounts recorded are based on estimated outcomes.
Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional information that becomes available.
During calendar year 2014, AVX was named as a co-defendant in a series of cases filed in the United States and in the Canadian provinces of Quebec, Ontario, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Manitoba alleging violations of United States, state and Canadian antitrust laws and asserting that AVX and numerous other companies were participants in alleged price-fixing in the capacitor market.
The cases in the United States were consolidated into the Northern District of California on October 2, 2014.
The cases in Canada have not been consolidated.
These cases are still in progress.
AVX believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend the cases.
16 



Table of Contents  



10.
Comprehensive Income (Loss): 



Comprehensive income (loss) represents changes in equity during a period except those resulting from investments by and distributions to shareholders.
The specific components include net income, pension liability and other post-retirement benefit adjustments, deferred gains and losses resulting from foreign currency translation adjustments and unrealized gains and losses on qualified foreign currency cash flow hedges.
Other comprehensive income (loss) includes the following components:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) include those that pertain to the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and realized gains and losses on derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Please see Note 12 for additional information related to the amortization of prior service cost and the recognized actuarial losses, which amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the statement of operations during the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018.
Please see Note 13 for additional information related to realized gains and losses on derivative instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net income (loss) during the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018.
11.
Segment and Geographic Information: 



Our operating segments are based on the types of products from which we generate revenues.
We are organized into a product line organization with four product groups and two reportable segments.
Historically, KED Resale reported as its own product group, but it has now been combined with Advanced Components.
The product groups of Ceramic, Advanced, and Tantalum Components have been aggregated into the Electronic Components reportable segment in accordance with the SEC’s aggregation criteria and quantitative thresholds.
The aggregation criteria consist of similar economic characteristics, products and services, production processes, customer classes, and distribution channels.
The Electronic Components segment consists primarily of surface mount and leaded ceramic capacitors, RF thick and thin film components, surface mount and leaded tantalum capacitors, polymer tantalum capacitors, surface mount and leaded film capacitors, ceramic and film power capacitors, super capacitors, EMI filters (bolt in and surface mount), thick and thin film packages of multiple passive integrated components, varistors, thermistors, inductors, resistive products, and passive and active electronic antennas and antenna systems manufactured by us or purchased from other manufacturers for resale.
The Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment consists primarily of automotive sensing and control devices and automotive, telecom, and memory connectors manufactured by or for AVX.
Sales and operating results from these reportable segments are shown in the tables below.
In addition, we have a corporate administration group consisting of finance, legal, environmental, health & safety, and administrative activities.
There are no intersegment revenues.
We allocate the costs of shared resources between segments based on each segment’s usage of the shared resources.
Cash, accounts receivable, investments in securities, and certain other assets, which are centrally managed, are not readily allocable to operating segments.
17 



Table of Contents  



The tables below present information about reported segments: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following geographic data is based upon net sales generated by operations located within particular geographic areas.
Substantially all of the sales in the Americas region were generated in the United States.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



18 



Table of Contents  



 12.
Pension Plans: 



Net periodic pension cost for our defined benefit plans consisted of the following for the three month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2018: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Based on current actuarial computations, during the three months ended June 30, 2018, we made contributions of $1,750 to the international plans.
We expect to make additional contributions of approximately $5,500 to the international plans over the remainder of fiscal 2019.
We made no contributions to the U.S. plans during the three months ended June 30, 2018.
13.
Derivative Financial Instruments: 



We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the normal course of business.
We use derivative instruments (forward contracts) to hedge certain foreign currency exposures as part of our risk management strategy.
The objective is to offset gains and losses resulting from these exposures with gains and losses on the forward contracts used to hedge them, thereby reducing volatility of earnings or protecting fair values of assets and liabilities.
We do not enter into any trading or speculative positions with regard to derivative instruments.
We primarily use forward contracts, with maturities less than four months, to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions related to purchase commitments and sales, denominated in various currencies.
These derivative instruments are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges.
The effectiveness of the cash flow hedges is determined by comparing the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedge contract with the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedged transaction, both of which are based on forward rates.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on these cash flow hedges is initially recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
Once the hedged transaction is recognized, the gain or loss is recognized in our statement of operations.
At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively, the following forward contracts were entered into to hedge against the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates for certain forecasted sales and purchases: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



19 



Table of Contents  



For these derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments, during the three month period ended June 30, 2018, net pre-tax losses of $833 were recognized in other comprehensive income (loss).
In addition, during the three month period ended June 30, 2018, net pre-tax losses of $2,045 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into cost of sales (for hedging purchases), and net pretax gains of $1,370 were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into sales (for hedging sales) in the accompanying statement of operations.
Derivatives not designated as cash flow hedging instruments consist primarily of forwards used to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures.
These hedging instruments are used to offset foreign currency changes in the fair values of the underlying assets and liabilities.
The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in other income (loss) in the same period as the remeasurement gains and losses of the related foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and thus naturally offset these gains and losses.
At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we had the following forward contracts that were entered into to hedge against these exposures.
At March 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts with notional amounts totaling $156,238 and $171,725, respectively, denominated primarily in Euros, Czech Korunas, and Japanese Yen.
14.
Subsequent Events: 



On July 18, 2018, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a $0.115 dividend per share of common stock with respect to the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
The dividend will be paid to stockholders of record on August 1, 2018 and will be disbursed on August 15, 2018.
20 



Table of Contents  



    ITEM 2.
Forward-looking statements reflect management’s expectations and are inherently uncertain.
We do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this quarterly report to reflect new events or circumstances unless and to the extent required by applicable law.
All forward-looking statements contained in this quarterly report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and, to the extent it may be applicable by way of incorporation of statements contained in this quarterly report by reference or otherwise, Section 27A of the United States Securities Act of 1933, each of which establishes a safe-harbor from private actions for forward-looking statements as defined in those statutes.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The Electronic Components segment consists primarily of surface mount and leaded ceramic capacitors, RF thick and thin film components, surface mount and leaded tantalum capacitors, polymer tantalum capacitors, surface mount and leaded film capacitors, ceramic and film power capacitors, super capacitors, EMI filters (bolt in and surface mount), thick and thin film packages of multiple integrated components, varistors, thermistors, inductors, resistive products, and passive and active electronic antennas and antenna systems manufactured by us or purchased from other manufacturers for resale.
The Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment consists primarily of automotive sensing and control devices and automotive, telecom, and memory connectors manufactured by, or for, AVX.
Our customers consist of multi-national original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, independent electronic component distributors, and electronic manufacturing service providers, or EMSs.
We coordinate our sales, marketing, and manufacturing organizations by strategic customer account and globally by region.
Results of Operations - Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 and 2018 



Our net income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was $56.0 million, or $0.33 per share, compared to net income of $31.5 million, or $0.19 per share, for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net sales in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 increased $122.7 million or 37.0%, to $454.1 million compared to $331.4 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
The increase in revenue includes sales of $97.8 million in our Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices segment that are attributable to our acquisition of the AB Electronic sensing and control (“S&C”) business and $31.9 million in our Electronic Components segment attributable to our acquisition of Ethertronics ("AVX Antenna").
The improved market demand is being driven in part by the power of electronics to enhance the user experience in automotive, wearables, smartphones, drones, solid state drives, personal and industrial robots, virtual reality devices, smart home control and security devices enabled through the internet within a broad category called IoT, or Internet of Things.
Sales were favorably impacted by approximately $8.4 million as a result of currency movement due to the strengthening of the Japanese Yen and Euro as compared to the U.S. Dollar when compared to the same period last year.
The table below represents product group revenues for the quarters ended June 30, 2017 and 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Electronic Components sales increased $17.5 million, or 5.8% to $319.2 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to sales of $301.7 million during the same period last year driven by favorable global macro-economic conditions, increased electronic content in automobiles, increased global defense spending, and technological advances across a broad range of IoT products.
Sales increases for our Ceramic and Tantalum Components were partially offset by sales decreases in our Advanced Component group primarily due to the previously announced decision by Kyocera to market and sell globally using Kyocera’s salesforce rather than Kyocera continuing to have AVX resell such products globally.
Kyocera Resale sales were $17.2 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $76.7 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
22 



Table of Contents  



Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product sales increased $105.2 million to $134.9 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $29.7 million during the same period last year.
This increase is primarily attributable to increased sales resulting from the addition of the S&C business in addition to increased demand in the European automotive markets.
S&C sensor and control devices accounted for $97.8 million of the increased sales during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
With the addition of S&C, whose sales are concentrated in Europe, overall sales percentages decreased in the Asian and American regions while sales increased in our European region compared to the same three-month period last year.
Sales in the Asian, American, and European markets represented 31%, 25% and 44% of total sales, respectively, for the three month period ended June 30, 2018.
This compares to 42%, 30% and 28% of total sales for the Asian, American, and European regions in the same period last year, respectively.
Our sales to independent electronic distributor customers represented 40% of total sales for the three month period ended June 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
Such allowance charges were $6.4 million, or 3.5% of gross sales to distributor customers for the three month period ended June 30, 2018, and $6.7 million, or 4.2% of gross sales to distributor customers, for the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
Applications under such programs for the three month periods ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were approximately $6.2 million and $6.7 million, respectively.
Gross profit in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 was $108.3 million, compared to a gross profit of $73.8 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
This overall increase in dollars is primarily attributable to higher sales in addition to improved margins.
Gross profit as a percentage of sales for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 was 23.9% compared to 22.3% for the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
Costs due to currency movement were unfavorably impacted by $4.4 million when compared to the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 were $40.3 million, or 8.9% of net sales, compared to $31.4 million, or 9.5% of net sales, in the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
Income from operations was $68.0 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $42.4 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
This increase was a result of the factors described above.
Other income, net, was $2.8 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $1.9 million for the same three month period last year.
The provision for income tax for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 was $14.8 million compared to $12.9 million for the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was enacted in the U.S.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income for the three month period ended June 30, 2018 was $56.0 million compared to net income of $31.5 million for the same three month period last year.
23 



Table of Contents  



Outlook 



Near-Term: 



With unpredictable global geopolitical and economic conditions, it is difficult to quantify expectations for the remainder of fiscal 2019.
We also continue to focus on process improvements and enhanced production capabilities in conjunction with our focus on the sales of value-added electronic components to support today’s advanced electronic use products.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our liquidity needs arise primarily from working capital requirements, dividends, capital expenditures, and acquisitions.
Historically, we have satisfied our liquidity requirements through funds from operations, investment income from cash and investments in securities, and cash on hand.
As of June 30, 2018, we had a current ratio of 5.4 to 1, $846.2 million of cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities, $2.2 billion of stockholders’ equity, and no borrowings.
On December 22, 2017, the Act was enacted in the U.S.
As a result of the Act we will have greater flexibility to redirect our global cash resources where they are needed.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $97.6 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 compared to $63.5 million of cash provided by operating activities in the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
Purchases of property and equipment were $38.0 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2018 and $21.8 million in the three month period ended June 30, 2017.
Expenditures in the current quarter were primarily made in connection with strategic building expansion and equipment purchase activities in our Fountain Inn, South Carolina facilities and our plants in El Salvador, and Malaysia.
We expect to continue making strategic capital investments in our Electronic Component and Interconnect, Sensing and Control Devices product lines and estimate that we will incur capital expenditures of approximately $110 million in fiscal 2019.
The actual amount of capital expenditures will depend upon the outlook for end-market demand and timing of capital projects.
On April 30, 2018, AVX completed its purchase of Kumatec for $12.3 million in cash, net of cash acquired and debt assumed.
Kumatec develops, constructs and manufactures automation equipment and manufactures plastic components.
24 



Table of Contents  



Historically, our operating funding is internally generated through operations, investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities and cash on hand.
We have assessed the condition of our financial resources and our current business and believe that, based on our financial condition as of June 30, 2018, cash on hand and cash expected to be generated from operating activities and investment income from cash, cash equivalents, and investments in securities will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated financing needs for working capital, capital expenditures, environmental clean-up costs, expenses related to ongoing litigation, pension plan funding, research, development, and engineering expenses, and dividend payments or stock repurchases to be made during the next twelve months.
The delivery contracts represent routine purchase orders for delivery within three months and payment is due upon receipt.
As of June 30, 2018, we did not have any significant delivery contracts outstanding.
Commitments and Contingencies 



Information related to commitments and contingencies can be found in Note 13, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, as well as in Note 9, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Accordingly, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
25 



Table of Contents  



    ITEM 3.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    



Our sales are denominated in various foreign currencies in addition to the U.S. Dollar.
Additionally, purchases of resale products from Kyocera may be denominated in Yen.
In order to minimize the effect of movements in currency exchange rates, we periodically enter into forward exchange contracts to hedge external and intercompany foreign currency transactions.
We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Accordingly, we have hedging commitments to cover a portion of our exchange risk on purchases, operating expenses, and sales.
There have been no material net changes in our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates as reflected in Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
See Note 13 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of derivative financial instruments.
ITEM 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     



We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
As of the end of the period covered in this report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.
26 



Table of Contents  



    PART II:   OTHER INFORMATION    



    ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    



Please refer to Note 9, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 to this Form 10-Q for a discussion of our involvement in certain environmental and other pending legal proceedings.
ITEM 1A.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS    



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 



The following table shows our purchases of common stock during the quarter.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)   



On October 17, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of 5,000,000 shares of our common stock from time to time in the open market.
The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock and are available for general corporate purposes.
As of June 30, 2018, there were 3,012,074 shares that may yet be repurchased under this program.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



27 



Table of Contents  



Signature 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized, and the undersigned also has signed this report in his capacity as the registrant’s Chief Financial Officer.
Date: August 6, 2018 



  AVX Corporation           



  By:   /s/ Michael Hufnagel           



   Michael Hufnagel      



    Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer        



28
