PART II.
The plaintiff seeks class certification, unspecified monetary damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees.
The Company disputes the allegations in the complaint and intends to vigorously defend against the claims.
However, the Company cannot make a meaningful estimate of actual costs to be incurred that could possibly be higher or lower than the amounts reserved.
Information regarding reportable legal proceedings is contained in Part I, Item 3.
Risk Factors of the Company’s Form 10-K.



29

Item 5.Other Information



Results of Annual Stockholders Meeting



At the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018, in Atlanta, Georgia, the stockholders considered and voted on the following proposals.
PROPOSAL 1 - Votes regarding the persons elected to serve as Directors of the Company were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 In addition to the above elected directors, the directors whose term of office continued after the meeting are as follows: W. Patrick Battle, James H. Hance, Jr. Robert F. McCullough, Julia B.
North, Dominic J. Pileggi, and Vernon J. Nagel.
PROPOSAL 2 - Votes cast regarding the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



PROPOSAL 3 - The results of the advisory vote on the compensation of the named executive officers of the Company were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



PROPOSAL 4 - The results of the advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on the compensation of the named executives of the Company were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



PROPOSAL 5 - The results of the vote regarding the approval of the Amended and Restated Acuity Brands, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Stock Incentive Compensation Plan were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



30

PROPOSAL 6 - The results of the vote regarding the approval of the Acuity Brands, Inc. 2017 Management Cash Incentive Plan were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



PROPOSAL 7 - The results of the shareholder proposal regarding the annual reporting of the Company's environmental, social, and governance policies (“ESG”), performance, and improvement targets were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Pursuant to the foregoing votes, the Company's stockholders: (i) elected five directors nominated by the Board of Directors and listed above for a one-year term; (ii) approved the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm; (iii) approved, on an advisory basis, the Company's named executive officer compensation; (iv) approved an annual frequency, on an advisory basis, for future advisory votes on named executive officer compensation; (v) approved the amended and restated stock incentive plan; (vi) approved the management cash incentive plan, and (vii) did not approve the shareholder proposal regarding annual reporting for ESG policies, performance, and improvement targets.
Additionally, the Board determined that the Company will hold future non-binding, advisory votes of stockholders to approve the compensation of the named executive officers every year, consistent with the results of the vote at the annual meeting of stockholders held on January 5, 2018.
This advisory vote will occur annually until the Board otherwise elects a different frequency for such non-binding, advisory votes or until another non-binding, advisory stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation occurs.
The Company expects to publish a policy on sustainability, which it anticipates will be available on the Company’s website in the near future.
The policy will describe and formalize the Company's ESG policies, including key performance indicators related to ESG matters that are material to the business.
Declaration of Dividend



On January 5, 2018, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share.
The dividend is payable on February 1, 2018 to stockholders of record on January 22, 2018.
Other Board Matters



On January 5, 2018, the Board reduced the size of the Board from 12 members to 11 members following the retirement of Gordon D. Harnett from the Board effective January 5, 2018.
Mr. Harnett advised the Company that his decision to retire did not involve any disagreement with the Company.
Item 6.Exhibits



Exhibits are listed on the Index to Exhibits.
31

INDEX TO EXHIBITS



EXHIBIT 3(a)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(b)Certificate of Amendment of Acuity Brands, Inc. (formerly Acuity Brands Holdings, Inc.), dated as of September 26, 2007.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.2 of registrant's Form 8-K as filed with the Commission on September 26, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(c)Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.C of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(d)Amended and Restated Bylaws of Acuity Brands, Inc., dated as of January 6, 2017.
Reference is made to Exhibit 3.D of registrant's Form 10-Q as filed with the Commission on January 9, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 10(iii)A(1)Amended and Restated Acuity Brands, Inc. 2012 Omnibus Stock Incentive Compensation Plan.
Reference is made to Annex A of the registrant’s Proxy Statement as filed with the Commission on November 21, 2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
(2)Acuity Brands, Inc. 2017 Management Cash Incentive Plan.
Reference is made to Annex B of the registrant’s Proxy Statement as filed with the Commission on November 21,2017, which is incorporated herein by reference.
EXHIBIT 31(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
(b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
EXHIBIT 32(a)Certification of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
(b)Certification of the Chief Financial Officer of the Company pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
Filed with the Commission as part of this Form 10-Q.
32
