Item 1.
Financial Statements.
BLACK BOX CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



 3

BLACK BOX CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Exclusive of depreciation and intangibles amortization.
See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



 4

BLACK BOX CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



 5

BLACK BOX CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements



 6

BLACK BOX CORPORATION



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(UNAUDITED)



Note 1: Business and Basis of Presentation



Business



Black Box Corporation ("Black Box," or "the Company”) is a leading digital solutions provider dedicated to helping customers design, build, manage, and secure their IT infrastructure.
The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms it has built over its 41-year history.
The Services platform is comprised of engineering and design, network operations centers, technical certifications, national and international sales teams, remote monitoring, on-site service teams and technology partner centers of excellence which includes dedicated sales and engineering resources.
The primary services offered through this platform include: (i) communications lifecycle services, (ii) unified communications, (iii) structured cabling, (iv) video/AV services (v) in-building wireless and (vi) data center services.
The Products platform provides networking solutions through the sale of products including: (i) IT infrastructure, (ii) specialty networking, (iii) multimedia and (iv) keyboard/video/mouse ("KVM") switching.
Founded in 1976, Black Box, a Delaware corporation, is headquartered near Pittsburgh in Lawrence, Pennsylvania.
Basis of Presentation



The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Company believes that these consolidated financial statements reflect all normal, recurring adjustments needed to present fairly the Company’s results for the interim periods presented.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (the "Form 10-K").
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively.
References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
All references to dollar amounts herein are presented in thousands, except per share amounts, unless otherwise noted.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain items in the consolidated financial statements of prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income (loss), comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, total assets or total stockholders' equity.
Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
Management believes the estimates made are reasonable.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
As of the third quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management believes that only the sale of certain parcels of the adjacent vacant land is probable to occur in the next twelve months.
These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
7

Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies



Significant Accounting Policies



The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements within the Form 10-K. No additional significant accounting policies have been adopted during Fiscal 2018.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



There have been no accounting pronouncements adopted during Fiscal 2018 that have had a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers", with subsequent amendments, that outline a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance (collectively hereafter referred to as the “standard”).
The core principle of the standard is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expected to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The standard is effective for annual reporting periods (including interim periods therein) beginning after December 15, 2017 for public companies with early adoption permitted for annual reporting periods (including interim periods therein) beginning after December 15, 2016.
Entities can use either of two methods: (i) retrospective to each prior period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within the standard; or (ii) retrospective with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures as defined in the standard.
Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard, the Company has continued to make progress through the third quarter of Fiscal 2018.
Black Box will adopt the standard under the modified retrospective transition approach, which will result in a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings at the date of initial application in the first quarter Fiscal 2019.
The Company has established an implementation team that has and will continue to review 1) contract terms and existing accounting policies to determine the financial impact of the standard, 2) data availability and system reports to meet the additional disclosure requirements of the standard, and 3) the control environment and internal processes to ensure the appropriate controls are in place.
Note 3: Inventories



The Company’s Inventories consist of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 8

Note 4: Intangible Assets



The following table summarizes the gross carrying amount, accumulated amortization and net carrying amount by intangible asset class:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets consist solely of the Company’s trademark portfolio.
The Company’s definite-lived intangible assets now consist solely of customer relationships.
Historically, the Company's annual assessment of the recoverability of trademarks and long-lived assets is conducted as of the end of the second quarter of its fiscal year.
The following table summarizes the changes to the net carrying amounts by intangible asset class:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table details the estimated intangibles amortization expense for the remainder of Fiscal 2018, each of the succeeding four fiscal years and the periods thereafter.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 9

Note 5: Indebtedness



The Company’s Long-term debt consists of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Refer below for additional details regarding the Company's amended credit agreement which includes a revolving credit agreement and a term loan.
(2) The Company's current portion of total debt primarily consists of minimum repayments of the term loan that are due in the next 12 months, which was $6,250 as of December 31, 2017.
In addition, the Company finances certain vendor-specific inventory under an unsecured revolving arrangement through third parties which provide extended payment terms beyond those offered by the vendor at no incremental cost to the Company.
The outstanding balance for these unsecured revolving arrangements was $4,758 as of December 31, 2017, $4,540 of which is classified as a current liability, and $3,387 as of March 31, 2017, $3,169 of which was classified as a current liability.
These balances are recorded as Other liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On May 9, 2016, the Company refinanced its then existing $200,000 credit facility in the form of a line of credit pursuant to a new credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agent, and certain other lender parties (the "Banks").
The Credit Agreement expires on May 9, 2021.
Borrowings under the Credit Agreement were permitted up to a maximum amount of $200,000, and included up to $15,000 of swing-line loans and $25,000 of letters of credit.
Interest on outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement accrued, at the Company’s option, at a rate based on either: (a) a Base Rate Option equal to the highest of (i) the federal funds open rate, plus fifty (50) basis points (0.5%), (ii) the bank’s prime rate, and (iii) the daily LIBOR rate, plus 100 basis points (1.0%), in each case plus 0% to 1.00% (determined by a leverage ratio based on the Company’s consolidated EBITDA) or (b) a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus 1.00% to 2.00% (determined by a leverage ratio based on the Company’s consolidated EBITDA).
The Credit Agreement required the Company to maintain compliance with certain non-financial and financial covenants such as leverage and interest coverage ratios.
On August 9, 2017, the Company and certain of the Banks entered into an Amendment and Joinder Agreement to amend and restate the Credit Agreement (as amended and restated, the “Amended Credit Agreement”) in order to avoid a default of its leverage covenant.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the credit facility has been reduced to $170,000 comprised of a $50,000 term loan and $120,000 line of credit.
As of August 9, 2017, $50,000 was borrowed under the term loan and $52,528 remained outstanding under the line of credit.
The amortization of the term loan is $1,250 per quarter for four (4) quarters beginning in the quarter ending December 31, 2017 and $2,500 per quarter beginning in the quarter ending December 31, 2018 through the end of the Amended Credit Agreement on May 9, 2021, the same expiration date of the Credit Agreement.
Mandatory prepayments of the term loan are required with the net proceeds from certain asset sales, insurance recoveries and debt or equity issuances, as well as from 75% to 50% of any excess cash flow generated in Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2020.
Interest on the term loan is, at the Company’s option: (i) a Base Rate Option equal to the highest of (x) the federal funds open rate, plus fifty (50) basis points (0.5%), (y) the bank’s prime rate, and (z) the daily LIBOR rate, plus 100 basis points (1.0%), in each case plus 2.5% or (ii) LIBOR plus 3.5%.
Interest on outstanding indebtedness under the line of credit accrues, at the Company’s option, at a rate based on either: (a) the Base Rate Option plus 0.25% to 2.00% (determined by a leverage ratio based on the Company’s consolidated EBITDA) or (b) a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR rate plus 1.25% to 3.00% (determined by a leverage ratio based on the Company’s consolidated EBITDA).
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant is suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019.
The Amended Credit Agreement contains a minimum Adjusted EBITDA covenant and a provision requiring the Company to repay revolving credit loans with any excess cash.
During that same period, a covenant will limit capital expenditures to an agreed upon 



 10

amount.
The ability of the Company to make dividends or other distributions (including stock repurchases other than up to a limited dollar amount for tax payments from vested equity awards) has been eliminated.
The leverage ratio covenant that starts in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 will be 4.00 to 1.00 and will reduce to 3.00 to 1.00 over the remaining life of the credit facility.
A fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 begins in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 increasing to 1.10 to 1.00 in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2019 and thereafter.
Entity”) and are guaranteed by such domestic subsidiaries.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company and each U.S.
Entity pledged 65% of the voting ownership interests and 100% of the non-voting ownership interests of its foreign subsidiaries.
Our Amended Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
A leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 through maturity in May 2021.
The maximum amount of debt outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement, the weighted-average balance outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and the weighted-average interest rate on all outstanding debt for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 was $149,750, $140,462 and 4.5%, respectively, compared to $141,300, $124,304 and 2.7%, respectively, for the three-months ended December 31, 2016.
The maximum amount of debt outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement, the weighted-average balance outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and the weighted-average interest rate on all outstanding debt for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 was $171,237, $138,186 and 3.7%, respectively, compared to $150,075, $129,884 and 2.6%, respectively, for the nine-months ended December 31, 2016.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had $4,850 outstanding in letters of credit and $22,150 in unused commitments, which are limited by a financial covenant, under the Amended Credit Agreement.
The Company uses derivative instruments to manage financial exposures that occur in the normal course of business.
It does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative trading purposes.
The Company is exposed to non-performance risk from the counterparties in its derivative instruments.
To help mitigate this risk, the Company transacts only with counterparties that are rated as investment grade or higher and all counterparties are monitored on a continuous basis.
The fair value of the Company’s derivatives reflects this credit risk.
The Company enters into foreign currency contracts to hedge exposure to variability in expected fluctuations in foreign currencies.
All of the foreign currency contracts have been designated and qualify as cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") until the hedged forecasted transaction occurs or the recognized currency transaction affects earnings.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had open contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen, all of which have been designated as cash flow hedges.
These contracts had a notional amount of $33,354 and will expire within 3 months.
There was no hedge ineffectiveness during Fiscal 2018 or Fiscal 2017.
The following tables summarize the carrying amounts of derivative assets/liabilities and the impact on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations:



 11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 12

Note 7: Fair Value Disclosures



Recurring fair value measurements



The following table presents information about the Company’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2017, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine such fair value:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) The fair value of pension plan assets is measured annually, thus this value is as of March 31, 2017.
Non-recurring fair value measurements



The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include non-financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination.
These shares do not include the treasury shares withheld for tax payments due upon the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares.
As of December 31, 2017, 1,107,149 shares were available under the most recent repurchase programs.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
This restriction is in effect until May 9, 2021, the termination date of the Amended Credit Agreement.
See Note 5 for additional information regarding our Amended Credit Agreement.
The change represents a discrete item for purposes of income tax accounting.
The increase in the provision was primarily due to the impact of the Tax Reform, valuation allowances booked against foreign tax credit carry-forwards, and certain state and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards.
The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year.
Cumulative adjustments to the Company's estimate are recorded in the interim period in which a change in the estimated annual effective rate is determined.
Based on the available evidence, a valuation allowance of $6,236 has been recorded against deferred tax assets relating to U.S. Federal foreign tax credits for $6,061, and state and foreign net operating losses for $17 and $158, respectively, for the three-



 14

months ended December 31, 2017.
Note 10: Stock-based Compensation



In August 2008, the Company’s stockholders approved the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"), which replaced the 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and the 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, as amended.
As of December 31, 2017, the Incentive Plan is authorized to issue stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares, among other types of awards, for up to 6,498,331 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "common stock").
The Company recognized stock-based compensation expense of $142 and $705 for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $3,380 and $3,877 for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
The Company recognized total income tax benefit for stock-based compensation arrangements of $53 and $262 for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and $1,257 and $1,442 for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Stock options



Stock option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant; such stock options generally become exercisable in equal amounts over a three-year period and have a contractual life of ten years from the grant date.
The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the Company’s stock option activity:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $2.48 and $3.74, respectively.
The intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $8 and $0, respectively.
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table is based on the closing stock price of the common stock on December 29, 2017, which was $3.55.
15

The following table summarizes certain information regarding the Company’s non-vested stock options:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of December 31, 2017, there was $950 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
Restricted stock units



Restricted stock unit awards are subject to a service condition and typically vest in equal amounts over a three-year period from the grant date.
The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of restricted stock units granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The following table summarizes the Company’s restricted stock unit activity:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The total fair value of shares that vested during the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1,902 and $2,039, respectively.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $2,480 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.
Performance share awards



Performance share awards are subject to one of the performance goals - the Company's Relative Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") Ranking or cumulative Adjusted EBITDA - each over a three-year period.
The Company’s Relative TSR Ranking metric is based on the three-year cumulative return to stockholders from the change in stock price and dividends paid between the starting and ending dates.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to cumulative Adjusted EBITDA) is determined based on the number of performance shares granted and the closing market price of the common stock on the date of grant.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
As of December 31, 2017, there was $1,355 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested performance share awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.
There were 1,872,446 and 1,165,620 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the three-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and 1,808,928 and 1,202,159 non-dilutive equity awards outstanding for the nine-months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, that are not included in the corresponding period Weighted-average common shares outstanding (diluted) computation.
17

Note 12: Segment Information



The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services.
These operating segments are also the Company's reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment and its reporting segments for financial reporting purposes.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those of the Company.
The Company allocates resources to its operating segments and evaluates the performance of the operating segments based upon operating income.
The financial results for the Company's reporting segments are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 13: Commitments and Contingencies



In connection with the Amended Credit Agreement disclosed in Note 5, the Company is required to make payments of $6,250 on its term loan over the next 12 months.
Correspondingly, the Company expects its long-term payments (greater than 1 year) under the credit facility to decrease by $6,250.
The Company is involved in, or has pending, various legal proceedings, claims, suits and complaints arising out of the normal course of business.
These restructuring activities are compartmentalized and are not part of an overall plan and therefore the Company cannot estimate the total amount to be incurred in connection with the activity.
Employee severance is generally payable within the next twelve months with certain facility costs extending through Fiscal 2019.
The following table summarizes the changes to the restructuring liability for the periods presented.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Of the $3,877 above, $3,829 is classified as a current liability under Other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for the period ended December 31, 2017.
19
