PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Risks Related to the Merger Agreement, the Offer and the Merger



On November 11, 2018, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with AGC Networks Pte Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Singapore (“Top Parent”), BBX Main Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Top Parent (“Parent”), BBX Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (“BBX Intermediate”), and Host Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of BBX Intermediate (“Merger Sub”, and, together with Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate, the “Parent Entities” and each, a “Parent Entity”).
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate have agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer (as it may be extended, amended or supplemented from time to time, the “Offer”) to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company (the “Shares”), at a price of $1.08 per Share, net to the holder thereof, in cash, without interest thereon (such amount, the “Offer Price”).
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub must commence the Offer no later than November 27, 2018.
Unless the Offer is extended pursuant to and in accordance with the Merger Agreement, the Offer will expire at midnight (i.e., one minute after 11:59 pm), New York time, on the date that is 20 business days after (and including the day of) the commencement date of the Offer.
As soon as practicable (and in any event within one business day) following the consummation of the Offer, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company (the “Merger”) in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”) and Section 251(h) thereof.
Each Share that is not tendered and accepted pursuant to the Offer (other than Shares owned by BBX Intermediate, Merger Sub or the Company, or by any of their direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, and Shares held by stockholders of the Company who are entitled to demand and who will have properly and validly demanded their statutory rights of appraisal in compliance in all respects with Section 262 of the DGCL) will be automatically converted into the right to receive the Offer Price at the time of the Merger, and the Company will survive the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of BBX Intermediate, all upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement.
BBX Intermediate has obtained debt financing commitments from Pathlight Capital LLC and Encina Business Credit, LLC, and Parent has obtained an equity financing commitment from Essar Telecom Limited, an entity organized under the laws of Mauritius and an affiliate of the Parent Entities, in each case to fund the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and subject to certain conditions.
The Offer is not subject to a financing condition.
We have identified the following risks related to the Company’s entry into the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, including the Offer and the Merger.
The obligation of Merger Sub to purchase Shares tendered in the Offer is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among other things, that at the expiration of the Offer a simple majority of all of the then outstanding Shares be validly tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Offer (the “Minimum Condition”).
If the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement are not met or waived, the Offer may not close nor will the Merger be consummated.
We cannot ensure that each of the conditions to the consummation of the Offer will be satisfied.
We may also be subject to additional risks, whether or not the Offer or the Merger is completed, including:



•our management having spent a significant amount of their time on and directed a significant portion of their efforts toward the Merger Agreement and the Offer, which time and efforts otherwise would have been spent on our business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to the Company;



•costs relating to the Merger Agreement and the Offer, such as legal, financial, and accounting fees, much of which must be paid regardless of whether the Offer and the Merger are completed;



•uncertainties relating to the Offer and the Merger may adversely affect the Company’s relationships with our employees, suppliers, customers, and other key constituencies; and



•restrictions under the Merger Agreement that require the Company to operate its business in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice pending consummation of the Merger and require the Company to obtain Parent’s prior 



 41

written consent during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger (or the date on which the Merger Agreement is earlier terminated) to take certain actions with respect to our business and financial affairs.
We cannot predict or give any assurances as to the market price of our common stock at any time before or after the completion of the Offer and the Merger.
As a result of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Company’s common stock has been trading within a narrow price range, which could limit possible returns on any new investment in the Company’s common stock.
Beginning with the first trading date following the announcement of the Merger Agreement, the contemplated Offer and the Merger, November 12, 2018, and continuing through the date hereof, our common stock has traded within a narrow price range: from a low closing price of [$1.05 to a high closing price of $1.12].
This constricted trading range surrounding the Offer price is typical with respect to proposed transactions such as the Offer, where the trading market may perceive that both the risk of one or more competing tender offers to be low and the likelihood of legal or regulatory impediments to the transaction to also be low.
Such a narrow trading range would very likely limit the returns, if any, on any investment in the Company’s common stock until the closing or abandonment of the Offer and the Merger.
The restrictions on solicitation, the termination fees and the expense reimbursement contained in the Merger Agreement may discourage other companies from trying to make a competing proposal.
Following the funding by the Parent Entities of an escrow account for purposes of securing any applicable reverse termination fee, the Company is subject to certain “no shop” restrictions on its ability to solicit, initiate or facilitate proposals or discussions with third parties regarding alternative transactions and certain restrictions on the Company’s ability to respond to such proposals, except in the case of alternative refinancing transactions that might also include a limited equity component, which are exempt from such restrictions.
Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including as a result of the Company’s agreement to enter into certain alternative transactions, the Company will be required to pay to Parent a termination fee of up to $2,500,000.
In addition, if Parent or the Company terminates the Merger Agreement due to a failure to meet the Minimum Condition by February 8, 2019, then the Company will be required to pay to Parent an expense reimbursement amount of $1,000,000.
These provisions could discourage other companies from trying to make a competing proposal even though those other companies might be willing to offer greater value to our stockholders than the Parent Entities offered or might result in other companies offering less value to our stockholders than they might otherwise have offered.
The Offer will be completed and the Merger consummated only if certain conditions are met; accordingly, there may be uncertainty regarding the completion of the Offer and the consummation of the Merger.
Customers, suppliers, lenders and partners may also seek to change existing agreements with us as a result of the proposed Offer and Merger.
The completion of the Offer and the consummation of the Merger may adversely affect our relationship with our customers, suppliers, 



 42

lenders and partners.
This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, and operations personnel.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 43
