Item 1.
Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



2 



Return to Index  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



3 



Return to Index  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



4 



Return to Index  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



5 



Return to Index  



BEL FUSE INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



  1.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting solely of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented have been made.
These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Bel Fuse Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company's significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There were no significant changes to these accounting policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018, except as discussed in Note 2, Revenue, related to the adoption of the new revenue standards.
All amounts included in the tables to these notes to condensed consolidated financial statements, except per share amounts, are in thousands.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) ("ASU 2014-09"), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is based on principles that govern the recognition of revenue at an amount an entity expects to be entitled when products are transferred to customers.
Subsequently, the FASB issued several other updates related to revenue recognition (collectively with ASU 2014-09, the "new revenue standards" or "ASC 606").
We adopted the guidance under the new revenue standards effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach by recognizing the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Upon adoption, the new revenue standards replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP.
In connection with the modified retrospective application of the new revenue standards, we recorded an adjustment to increase retained earnings of $3.4 million upon the January 1, 2018 adoption date.
Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of additional required disclosures in Note 2, the adoption of the new revenue standards did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
This guidance primarily affects the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The new standard was effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017.
We adopted this guidance on January 1, 2018.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
This guidance addresses diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
This accounting guidance was effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 31, 2017, including interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods, and should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented.
This guidance was adopted by the Company effective January 1, 2018 and it did not have any impact on the Company's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows in the periods presented.
6 



Return to Index  



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.
Current U.S. GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party.
The new guidance eliminates the exception and requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
This accounting guidance was effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim reporting periods within those annual reporting periods, and should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business ("ASU 2017-01"), to clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
The definition of a business affects many areas of accounting including acquisitions, disposals, goodwill and consolidation.
ASU 2017-01 provides a framework that gives entities a basis for making reasonable judgments about whether a transaction involves an asset or a business.
The Company adopted ASU 2017-01 on January 1, 2018, and the guidance will be applied on a prospective basis.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Compensation – Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost ("ASU 2017-07").
This guidance requires that an employer disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net benefit cost.
ASU 2017-07 requires employers to present the service cost component of the net periodic benefit cost in the same income statement line as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period.
The other components of net benefit cost, including interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs and actuarial gains/losses, and settlement and curtailment effects, are to be presented outside of any subtotal of operating income.
The Company adopted the guidance of ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018 and elected to apply the practical expedient and use the amounts disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2017 as the basis for applying the retrospective application required by the standard.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting ("ASU 2017-09").
This update provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718.
This guidance is effective for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2017.
The Company adopted ASU 2017-09 on January 1, 2018, and the guidance within this update will be applied to any future award modifications.
Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to provide a new comprehensive model for lease accounting.
Under this guidance, lessees and lessors should apply a "right-of-use" model in accounting for all leases (including subleases) and eliminate the concept of operating leases and off-balance sheet leases.
Recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses will depend on classification as a finance or operating lease.
Similar modifications have been made to lessor accounting in-line with revenue recognition guidance.
This guidance is effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
The amendments also require certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures about leasing arrangements.
Early adoption is permitted.
The updated guidance requires a modified retrospective adoption.
We are currently in the process of evaluating this new standard update.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment ("ASU 2017-04").
ASU 2017-04 simplifies how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Early adoption is permitted for interim and annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017.
The Company is required to adopt ASU 2017-04 for its annual or any interim goodwill impairment tests for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and the guidance is to be applied on a prospective basis.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently in the process of evaluating this new standard update.
7 



Return to Index  



In May 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation – Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which simplifies the accounting for share-based payments granted to nonemployees for goods and services.
This guidance will better align the treatment of share-based payments to nonemployees with the requirements for such share-based payments granted to employees.
This guidance is effective for all public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that year.
We are currently in the process of evaluating this new standard update.
2.
REVENUE     



Significant Accounting Policy 



On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605.
In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for these goods and services.
Nature of Goods and Services 



Our revenues are substantially derived from sales of our products.
In our connectivity solutions product group, we provide high-quality and reliable high-performance connectors and cable assemblies to the aerospace, military/defense, commercial, rugged harsh environment and communication markets.
In our power solutions and protection group, we provide intelligent, efficient and reliable AC-DC and DC-DC power conversion devices and circuit protection products.
Applications range from board-mount power to system-level architectures for servers, storage, networking, industrial and transportation.
Products within the Company's magnetic solutions group are primarily used in networking and industrial applications.
The Company also provides incremental services to our customers in the form of training, technical support, special tooling, and other support as deemed necessary from time to time.
For purposes of ASC 606, all such incremental services were concluded to be immaterial in the context of the contracts.
Types of Contracts 



Substantially all of the Company's revenue is derived from contracts with its customers under one of the following types of contracts: 



  ·   Direct with customer: This includes contracts with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), and contract manufacturers (CMs).
The nature of Bel's products are such that they represent components which are installed in various end applications (i.e.
servers, aircraft, missiles and rail applications).
The OEM, ODM or CM that purchases our product for further installation are our end customers.
Contracts with these customers are broad-based and cover general terms and conditions.
Incremental services included in the contracts, such as training, tooling and other customer support are determined to be immaterial in the context of the contract, both individually and in the aggregate.
Revenue under these contracts is generally recognized at a point in time, generally upon shipping or delivery, which closely mirrors the shipping terms dictated by the applicable contract.
8 



Return to Index  



  ·   Distributor: Distribution customers buy product directly from Bel and sell it in the marketplace to end customers.
Bel contracts directly with the distributor.
These contracts are typically global in nature and cover a variety of our product groups.
Revenue is recognized at a point in time, generally upon shipping or delivery, which closely mirrors the shipping terms dictated by the applicable contract.
·   Consignment: These customers operate under a type of concession agreement whereby the Company ships goods to a warehouse or hub, where they will be pulled by the customer at a later date.
The terms specified in the consignment contracts specify that the Company will not invoice the customer for product until it is pulled from the warehouse or hub.
Once product arrives at the hub, it is generally not returned to Bel unless there is a warranty issue (see "Warranties" section below).
Under ASC 606, it was determined that the majority of these hubs are customer-controlled, and therefore control transfers to the customer upon either delivery from Bel's warehouse, or arrival at the customer-controlled hub, depending upon the applicable shipping terms.
Effective January 1, 2018, revenue is recognized as control of the product is transferred to the customer (for customer-controlled hubs, this is at the time product is shipped to the hub).
This gives rise to an unbilled receivable balance, as we do not have the right to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub.
Income related to these agreements is tracked by the licensee throughout the year based on their sales of product that utilize Bel's IP, and that data is reported to Bel either on a quarterly or annual basis, with payment generally received within 30 days of the reporting date.
However, the recognition of revenue associated with these licenses is subject to the sales- or usage-based constraint on variable consideration.
As such, the Company records a constrained estimate of this variable consideration as royalty income in the period of the underlying customers' product sales, with adjustments made as actual licensee sales data becomes available.
Warranties generally extend for one to three years from the date of sale, providing customers with assurance that the related product will function as intended.
Actual warranty repair costs are charged against the reserve balance as incurred.
See Note 11, "Accrued Expenses."
Product Returns 



We estimate product returns, including product exchanges under warranty, based on historical experience.
In general, the Company is not contractually obligated to accept returns except for defective product or in instances where the product does not meet the Company's product specifications.
However, the Company may permit its customers to return product for other reasons.
In certain instances, the Company would generally require a significant cancellation penalty payment by the customer.
The Company estimates such returns, where applicable, based upon management's evaluation of historical experience, market acceptance of products produced and known negotiations with customers.
Significant Payment Terms 



Contracts with customers indicate the general terms and conditions in which business will be conducted for a set period of time.
Payment for products sold under consignment contracts is typically due within 60 days of the customer pulling the product from the hub.
Payment due related to our licensing agreements is generally within 30 days of receiving the licensee sales data, which is either on a quarterly or annual basis.
However, the "ship and debit" arrangements with distributors, royalty income associated with our licensing agreements, and the product returns described above are each deemed to be variable consideration which requires the Company to make constrained estimates based on historical data.
In the case of our consignment arrangements, we are unable to invoice the customer until product is pulled from the hub by the customer, which generates an unbilled receivable (a contract asset) when revenue is initially recognized.
A contract liability results when cash payments are received or due in advance of our performance obligation being met.
The balances of the Company's contract assets and contract liabilities at June 30, 2018 are as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The change in balance of our unbilled receivables from January 1, 2018 to June 30, 2018 primarily relates to a timing difference between the Company's performance (i.e.
when our product is shipped to a customer-controlled hub) and the point at which the Company can invoice the customer per the terms of the customer contract (i.e.
when the customer pulls our product from the customer-controlled hub).
A tabular presentation of the activity within the deferred revenue account for the six months ended June 30, 2018 is presented below: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



11 



Return to Index  



Transaction Price Allocated to Future Obligations: 



The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations that have not been satisfied as of June 30, 2018 related to contracts that exceed one year in duration amounted to $18.3 million, with expected contract expiration dates that range from 2019 - 2024.
It is expected that 20% of this aggregate amount will be recognized in 2019, 63% will be recognized in 2020 and the remainder will be recognized in years beyond 2020.
The majority of the Company's total backlog of orders at June 30, 2018 is related to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, for which the Company is electing to utilize the practical expedient available within the guidance, and are excluded from the transaction price related to these future obligations.
The Company will generally satisfy the remaining performance obligations as we transfer control of the products ordered to our customers.
The transaction price related to these future obligations also excludes variable consideration consisting of sales or usage-based royalties earned on licensing agreements.
Other Practical Expedients: 



In the application of the recognition and measurement principles of ASC 606, the Company elected to utilize the following additional practical expedients which are provided for within the guidance: 



  ·   Financing Components: Bel has elected the practical expedient which enables management to disregard the effects of a financing component if the time difference between delivery of goods or services and payment for the goods or services is within one year.
·   Costs to Obtain a Contract: As part of negotiations, Bel may incur incremental costs to obtain a contract.
sales commissions).
Bel has elected the practical expedient that allows incremental costs to obtain a contract to be expensed as incurred when the expected amortization period is one year or less.
3.
EARNINGS PER SHARE     



The following table sets forth the calculation of basic and diluted net earnings per common share under the two-class method for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



12 



Return to Index  



4.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 



Fair value is defined as an exit price, representing the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants based upon the best use of the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Entities are required to use a fair value hierarchy which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company held certain financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
These consisted of securities that are among the Company's investments in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP") obligations.
Such unrealized gains are included, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive loss.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our available-for-sale securities, which primarily consist of investments held in a rabbi trust of $1.5 million at each date, are measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) inputs.
The Company does not have any financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis categorized as Level 3, and there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 during the six months ended June 30, 2018 or June 30, 2017.
There were no changes to the Company's valuation techniques used to measure asset fair values on a recurring or nonrecurring basis during the six months ended June 30, 2018.
There were no financial assets accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of June 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
The Company has other financial instruments, such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued expenses and notes payable, which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis but are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature.
The fair value of the Company's long-term debt is estimated using a discounted cash flow method based on interest rates that are currently available for debt issuances with similar terms and maturities.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of total debt was $117.9 million and $124.8 million, respectively, compared to a carrying amount of $115.5 million and $122.7 million, respectively.
The Company did not have any other financial liabilities within the scope of the fair value disclosure requirements as of June 30, 2018.
Nonfinancial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and long-lived assets, are accounted for at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
These items are tested for impairment upon the occurrence of a triggering event or in the case of goodwill, on at least an annual basis.
There were no triggering events that occurred during the six months ended June 30, 2018 that would warrant interim impairment testing.
5.
INVENTORIES 



The components of inventories are as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



13 



Return to Index  



  6.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT     



Property, plant and equipment consist of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Depreciation expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $2.9 million and $3.4 million, respectively.
Depreciation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $6.1 million and $7.0 million, respectively.
7.
ACCRUED EXPENSES     



Accrued expenses consist of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



A tabular presentation of the activity within the warranty accrual account for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 is presented below: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  8.
DEBT     



The Company has a Credit and Security Agreement with KeyBank National Association (as amended, the "CSA").
The CSA consists of (i) a term loan, with outstanding borrowings of $117.5 million and $125.0 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively and (ii) a $75 million revolving credit facility ("Revolver"), with no outstanding borrowings at June 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
The CSA has a maturity date of December 11, 2022.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the carrying value of the debt on the condensed consolidated balance sheet is reflected net of $2.0 million and $2.3 million, respectively, of deferred financing costs.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company made voluntary prepayments of $6.0 million.
Per the terms of the CSA, such voluntary prepayments reduce the amount of future scheduled payments on a pro rata basis.
The weighted-average interest rate in effect was 4.13% at June 30, 2018 and 3.38% at December 31, 2017 and consisted of LIBOR plus the Company's credit spread, as determined per the terms of the CSA.
The Company incurred $1.3 million and $1.6 million of interest expense during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively, and $2.5 million and $3.0 million of interest expense during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
14 



Return to Index  



The CSA contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default and financial covenants that measure (i) the ratio of the Company's total funded indebtedness, on a consolidated basis, to the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA, as defined, ("Leverage Ratio") and (ii) the ratio of the amount of the Company's consolidated EBITDA to the Company's consolidated fixed charges.
If an event of default occurs, the lenders under the CSA would be entitled to take various actions, including the acceleration of amounts due thereunder and all actions permitted to be taken by a secured creditor.
At June 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with its debt covenants, including its most restrictive covenant, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.
9.
The Company's liabilities for uncertain tax positions totaled $29.8 million and $30.4 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, of which $1.4 million and $2.5 million is included in other current liabilities at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
These amounts, if recognized, would reduce the Company's effective tax rate.
As of June 30, 2018, approximately $1.4 million of the Company's liabilities for uncertain tax positions are expected to be resolved during 2018 by way of expiration of the related statute of limitations.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, in interest and penalties in the consolidated statements of operations.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized a benefit of $0.4 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, for the reversal of such interest and penalties, relating to the expiration of statutes of limitations and settlement of the acquired liability for uncertain tax positions, respectively.
10.
RETIREMENT FUND AND PROFIT SHARING PLAN 



The Company maintains the Bel Fuse Inc. Employees' Savings Plan, a defined contribution plan that is intended to meet the applicable requirements for tax-qualification under sections 401(a) and (k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
The expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.3 million in both periods.
The expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.6 million in both periods.
The Company's matching contribution is made in the form of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A common stock.
As of June 30, 2018, the plan owned 90,521 and 140,591 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively.
15 



Return to Index  



The Company's subsidiaries in Asia have a retirement fund covering substantially all of their Hong Kong based full-time employees.
The expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.1 million in both periods.
The expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 amounted to $0.2 million in both periods.
As of June 30, 2018, the plan owned 3,323 and 17,342 shares of Bel Fuse Inc. Class A and Class B common stock, respectively.
The Company maintains a SERP, which is designed to provide a limited group of key management and other key employees of the Company with supplemental retirement and death benefits.
As discussed in Note 3 above, the Company has investments in a rabbi trust which are intended to fund the obligations of the SERP.
The following amounts are recognized net of tax in accumulated other comprehensive loss: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



11.
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 



The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 are summarized below: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



16 



Return to Index  



Changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss by component during the six months ended June 30, 2018 are as follows.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



12.
In connection with the acquisition of Power Solutions, there is an ongoing claim by the Arezzo Revenue Agency in Italy concerning certain tax matters related to what was then Power-One Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd. (now Bel Power Solutions Asia Pacific Electronics Shenzhen Co. Ltd, or "BPS China") for the years 2004 to 2006.
In September 2012, the Tax Court of Arezzo ruled in favor of BPS China and cancelled the claim.
In February 2013, the Arezzo Revenue Agency filed an appeal of the Tax Court's ruling.
The hearing of the appeal was held on October 2, 2014.
On October 13, 2014, BPS China was informed of the Regional Tax Commission of Florence ruling which was in favor of the Arezzo Revenue Agency and against BPS China.
An appeal was filed on July 18, 2015 before the Regional Tax Commission of Florence and rejected.
On December 5, 2016, the Arezzo Revenue Agency filed an appeal with the Supreme Court and BPS China filed a counter-appeal on January 4, 2017.
The Supreme Court has yet to render its judgment.
The Court hearing on infringement took place on March 23, 2017.
Upon hearing argument from both parties, the Court issued a decision on April 6, 2017 staying final judgment in the infringement case pending resolution of the nullity lawsuit in the Federal Patents Courts in Munich, Germany.
The Federal Patents Courts issued its preliminary opinion regarding the patent-in-suit on March 29, 2018, stating that it considers the patent-in-suit to not be novel over the prior art documents presented in the case.
The parties agreed to withdraw from the pending infringement and nullity proceedings and entered into a settlement agreement on June 29, 2018.
The Company paid Setec 75,000 Euro in exchange for a perpetual, worldwide royalty-free license to the patent-in-suit and all its counterparts.
In 2015, one of the Company's subsidiaries in the PRC, Dongguan Transpower Electric Products Co., Ltd. ("Dongguan Transpower"), was provided notice of a claim by DG Yu Shing Industrial Development Company Limited against Dongguan Transpower and three other defendants for past due construction costs of approximately $3.2 million.
In April 2018, the 3rd People Court of Dongguan ruled and provided an unfavorable judgment against Dongguan Transpower and two of the other defendants requiring payment of the aforementioned amount.
The defendants were held to be jointly and severally liable for approximately $3.2 million in costs.
Due to the fact that none of the other defendants had sufficient funds to pay the damages amount, the Court ordered the entire amount (CNY 20,133,174) to be paid by Dongguan Transpower.
On May 25, 2018, the Court enforced its order and withdrew the damages amount from Dongguan Transpower's bank accounts.
On May 31, 2018, Dongguan Transpower filed an action against the other defendants in CP Court to recoup the damages amount paid pursuant to an indemnification letter dated October 16, 2015.
The Court heard arguments on July 2, 2018 and rendered a verdict on July 9, 2018 ordering the Jinmei entities (defendants) to pay CNY 20,133,174 back to Dongguan Transpower together with the incurred interest.
The Company's balance sheet at June 30, 2018 includes an indemnification asset in the amount of $3.2 million, included in other current assets, related to this.
The Company expects that funds will be remitted by mid-August.
17 



Return to Index  



On June 1, 2018, the Company filed an action against Unipower, LLC in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for breach of contract.
Specifically, the Company alleges in its Complaint that Unipower has willfully violated the Master Services Agreement ("MSA") entered into by the parties on January 23, 2015 by failing to make payment for the products it contracted for under the MSA.
The Court has set an initial case management conference for August 17, 2018.
13.
SEGMENTS 



The Company operates in one industry with three reportable operating segments, which are geographic in nature.
The segments consist of North America, Asia and Europe.
The primary criteria by which financial performance is evaluated and resources are allocated are net sales and income from operations.
The following is a summary of key financial data: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net Sales – Segment net sales are attributed to individual segments based on the geographic source of the billing for such customer sales.
18 



Return to Index
