 Item 1.
Consolidated Financial Statements  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands, except share and per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
3  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands, except per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
4  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
5  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
6  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited)  



 1.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group), (the “Disposition”).
The Company determined that the cryogenics business met the “held for sale” criteria and the “discontinued operations” criteria in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard Boards (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, Presentation of Financial Statements, (“FASB ASC 205”) as of December 31, 2018.
The discussion in the notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted, relate solely to the Company's continuing operations.
Please refer to Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” for further information.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
2.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Derivative Instruments  



 The Company has transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Most of these transactions or balances are denominated in Euros, British Pounds and a variety of Asian currencies.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into, typically mature in three months or less.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
Fair Value Measurements   



 The Company measures at fair value certain financial assets and liabilities, including cash equivalents and available for sale securities.
FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement and Disclosures, establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The following levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value:  



 Level 1 Inputs: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Level 2 Inputs: Observable inputs other than prices included in Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 Inputs: Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities and reflect an entity’s own assumptions in pricing assets or liabilities since they are supported by little or no market activity.
As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements   



 In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which amends ASC 715 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The amendment removes disclosure requirement for accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized over the next year, information 



 8  



 Table of Contents  



about plan assets to be returned to the entity, and the effects of a one-percentage-point change on the assumed health care costs and the effect of this change in rates on service cost, interest cost, and the benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits.
The ASU is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020.
Early adoption is permitted.
The ASU does not amend the interim disclosure requirements of ASC 715-20.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which amends ASC 820 to add and remove disclosure requirements related to fair value measurement.
The amendments eliminated disclosure requirements for amount of and reasons for transfers between Level 1 and Level 2, valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements, and policy for timing of transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
In addition, the amendments modified certain disclosure requirement to provide clarification or to promote appropriate exercise of discretion by entities.
ASU 2018-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods therein.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU.
The entities have the option to apply the guidance retrospectively or in the period of adoption.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption in any period is permitted.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), which amends ASC 326 to add, remove, and clarify disclosure requirements related to credit losses of financial instruments.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model which applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption of the newly issued guidance is permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
The standard should be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB ASC.
In accordance with the provisions of the newly issued guidance, a lessee should recognize at the inception of the arrangement a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability initially measured at the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with 



 9  



 Table of Contents  



provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The guidance also specifies the accounting for certain costs to obtain and fulfill a contract, as codified in ASC 340-40 Accounting for Other Assets and Deferred Costs (“ASC 340-40”).
The Company adopted this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and has only applied this method to contracts that were not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts have not been restated and continue to be reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.
The impact of the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 effective October 1, 2018 on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet is as follows:   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Upon adoption the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $0.9 million, net of tax adjustment of $0.4 million, which resulted in an increase to the opening accumulated deficit balance on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily driven by deferral of previously recognized revenue within the Brooks Life Sciences segment, offset by deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
A portion of the adjustment related to the acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment results from the change in the revenue recognition rules.
Upon the adoption of ASC 606, the Company is no longer required to defer revenue in accordance with billing constraints defined in the contract with the customer.
The change impacted the Company’s semiconductor contamination control solutions revenue stream as the Company is now permitted to recognize revenue in an amount equivalent to the transfer of control that has occurred.
(Please refer to Note 13, “Revenue” for further information on when control is transferred).
A portion of the adjustment related to the deferral of previously recognized revenue within the Brooks Life Science segment related to fees associated with registration of biological samples.
This adjustment is derived from the new 



 10  



 Table of Contents  



requirement to recognize revenue associated with certain sample life cycle management solutions transactions over time under ASC 606, while historically these transactions have been recorded at a point in time.
Registration fees for these samples were previously recognized as revenue at a point in time upon completion of the registration and are now required to be recognized ratably over the period of benefit under ASC 606.
As a result, upon adopting the standard the Company deferred previously recognized registration fee revenue for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
The period of benefit associated with registration fees has been determined to be approximately 24 months resulting in the deferral of revenue historically recognized at a point in time over this period.
This change resulted in a decrease to accumulated deficit of $3.1 million as of October 1, 2018.
A portion of the adjustment is related to the deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Science segment.
This portion of the adjustment is derived from the new requirement to recognize the cost to obtain certain transactions over time under ASC 340-40, while historically this expense has been recognized at a point in time.
The standard requires certain costs incurred to obtain a contract to be recorded as an asset when incurred and expensed as the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligations occur or over the estimated customer life, depending on the nature of the underlying contract.
As a result, upon adopting the standard the Company deferred previously recognized costs for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
This change resulted in an increase to accumulated deficit of $1.5 million as of October 1, 2018.
Additional changes to the Company’s accumulated deficit were made as the result of adopting ASC 606.
These changes, which resulted in a cumulative decrease to accumulated deficit of $0.2 million as of October 1, 2018, were driven by the identification of additional performance obligations as well as changes in the transfer of control of certain performance obligations across both the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group and Brooks Life Science segments.
The additional changes to the Company’s accumulated deficit included a cumulative decrease to accumulated deficit of $0.2 million from discontinued operations.
As the Company has adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method, the standard requires disclosure of impact from adoption of the standard to each financial statement line item in the current reporting period.
The impact of adoption of ASC 606 on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Balance sheet was as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 11  



 Table of Contents  



 The difference between the reported results and the results without the adoption of ASC 606 was primarily driven from the elimination of revenue constraints due to billing limitations that resulted in acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and the deferral of fees associated with the registration of biological samples within the Brooks Life Science segment.
Amortization of costs to obtain a contract capitalized through the cumulative effect adjustment described above have resulted in additional expense in the current period under ASC 606.
3.
Discontinued Operations  



 On August 27, 2018, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its semiconductor cryogenics business to Edwards Vacuum LLC (a member of the Atlas Copco Group) for $675.0 million in cash.
The purchase price is subject to adjustments for working capital and other items.
The Company anticipates closing of the transaction in the third fiscal quarter of 2019 upon satisfaction of various closing conditions and regulatory approvals.
The semiconductor cryogenics business consists of the CTI pump business, Polycold chiller business, the related services business and the Company's 50% share in Ulvac Cryogenics, Inc., a joint venture based in Japan.
In connection with the Disposition, the Company and Edwards have agreed to enter into a transition service agreement, a supply agreement, and lease agreements.
The transition service agreement outlines the information technology, people, and facility support the Company expects to provide to Edwards for a period up to 9 months after transaction closing date.
The supply agreement allows the Company to purchase CTI and Polycold goods at cost from Edwards up to an aggregate amount equal to $1.0 million during the one-year term after closing of the Disposition.
The lease agreements will provide facility space to Edwards free of charge for three years after the transaction closing date.
Edwards will have the option to renew each lease at the then current market rates after the initial three-year lease term has ended.
This Disposition is consistent with the Company’s long-standing strategy to increase shareholder value by accelerating the growth of its Life Sciences business with further acquisitions and strengthening its semiconductor automation business with opportunistic acquisitions.
The Disposition met the "held for sale" criteria and the “discontinued operation” criteria in accordance with FASB ASC 205 as of September 30, 2018.
The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis in April 2018.
This analysis was updated upon announcement of the Disposition for the year ended September 30, 2018.
The Company has concluded that there is no impairment indicator related to the goodwill of the Disposition group at either date the impairment analysis was performed.
Balances as of December 31, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while balances as of September 30, 2018 have not been restated and are reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities associated with discontinued operations as of December 31, 2018 was not significantly impacted by the adoption of ASC 606:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 14  



 Table of Contents  



 4.
Marketable Securities  



 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Marketable securities reported as current assets represent investments that mature within one year from the balance sheet date.
Long-term marketable securities represent investments with maturity dates greater than one year from the balance sheet date.
The securities are valued using matrix pricing and benchmarking and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices.
There were no sales of marketable securities during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company sold marketable securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $49.4 million and $49.5 million, respectively, and recognized net losses of $0.1 million.
15  



 Table of Contents  



 The Company reviews the marketable securities for impairment at each reporting period to determine if any of the securities have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value.
There were no securities in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2018.
The aggregate fair value of the marketable securities in an unrealized loss position was $43.0 million as of September 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, marketable securities in an unrealized loss position was comprised primarily of U.S. Treasury securities, corporate securities, and municipal securities.
The unrealized losses were attributable to changes in interest rates that impacted the value of the investments.
Cash equivalents of less than $0.1 million and $50.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 consist of money market funds and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in active markets.
Cash equivalents of less than $0.1 million at December 31, 2018 consist primarily of bank certificates of deposits with original maturities of less than 90 days and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
5.
Acquisitions  



 Acquisition Completed in Fiscal Year 2019  



 Acquisition of GENEWIZ  



 On November 15, 2018, the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock of GENEWIZ Group (“GENEWIZ”), a leading global genomics service provider headquartered in South Plainfield, New Jersey.
GENEWIZ provides genomics services that enable research scientists to advance their discoveries within the pharmaceutical, academic, biotechnology, agriculture and other markets.
This transaction added a new and innovative platform which the Company expects to leverage, along with its core capabilities, to add even more value to samples under the Company’s care.
The total cash purchase price for the acquisition was $442.4 million, net of cash acquired.
The Company used the proceeds of the incremental loan described in Note 8, “Debt” to pay a portion of the purchase price.
The Company also retained an amount equal to $1.5 million (adjustment holdback) as collateral for any adjustment shortfall in determining the final merger consideration.
The final settlement of the adjustment hold back is expected to be determined during the second quarter of the Company’s 2019 fiscal year.
The Company recorded the following assets acquired and liabilities assumed related to GENEWIZ at their fair values as of the acquisition date, from a market participant’s perspective (in thousands).
The finalization of the assignment of fair values will be completed within one year.
16  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identifiable intangible assets include customer relationships (excess earnings method) of $125.4 million with a useful life of 14 years, completed technology (relief from royalty method) of $44.1 million with useful lives from 10 to 15 years and trademarks (relief from royalty method) of $19.0 million with a useful life of 13 years.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 13.3 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
Goodwill of $236.5 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of the Company’s core technologies and offerings in the Life Sciences business.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, net income included $1.6 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
The Company incurred $10.0 million in transaction costs related to the acquisition of which $6.3 million was incurred during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The unaudited pro forma financial information presented in the table above has been adjusted to give effect to adjustments that are (1) directly related to the acquisition; (2) factually supportable; and (3) expect to have a continuing 



 17  



 Table of Contents  



impact.
Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 is recognized in accordance with ASC 606, while results for the three months ended December 31, 2017 have not been restated and are reported in accordance with the governing revenue recognition standards applicable to that period.
Pro forma revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 has been decreased by $0.4 million for the adoption of ASC 606.
To present our consolidated results of operations as if the acquisition had taken place on October 1, 2017, the unaudited pro forma earnings for the period from October 31, 2018 to December 31, 2018 and the three months ended December 31, 2017 have been adjusted to include the following additional expenses related to the acquisition: $1.6 million and $3.3 million, respectively, of property, plant, and equipment, leases, and intangible asset step-up depreciation and amortization expense, and $2.0 million and $4.8 million, respectively, of interest expense related to financing activities.
The net loss of $35.3 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2018 is mainly due to the one-time option, bonus, and transaction costs of $43.9 million incurred by GENEWIZ and one-time transaction costs of $6.3 million incurred by Brooks.
Acquisitions Completed in Fiscal Year 2018  



 Acquisition of Tec-Sem  



 On April 6, 2018, the Company acquired approximately 93% of the outstanding capital stock of Tec-Sem Group AG (“Tec-Sem”), a Switzerland-based manufacturer of semiconductor fabrication automation equipment with a focus on reticle management.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company acquired the remaining 7% noncontrolling interest upon the completion of certain procedural steps.
The total cash payment to acquire the business was $15.6 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
The acquisition of Tec-Sem has expanded the Company’s contamination control solutions business within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
The preliminary amounts recorded were as follows (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 8.6 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
18  



 Table of Contents  



 Goodwill of $7.7 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of technical capabilities to the Company's existing contamination control solutions business.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and is not tax deductible.
As part of the acquisition, the Company assumed all the assets and liabilities of Tec-Sem’s Swiss defined benefit plan, which covered substantially all its full-time employees.
At acquisition date, the plan was fully funded for each employee’s pension contribution plus an expected rate of return equal to the statutory discount rate.
Total plan assets and plan liability were $5.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, at acquisition date.
The Company recorded a liability of $2.8 million for the unfunded projected benefit obligation related to each plan participant’s future services.
The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date.
The revenues and net income from Tec-Sem included in the Company's consolidated results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $9.3 million and $1.7 million, respectively.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the net income included $0.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories and $0.9 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
The remaining $0.8 million of the escrow balance is related to a performance obligation that the Company assumed at the acquisition date for the transfer of non-core wafer stocker technology to an unrelated third party.
Upon successful delivery of such technology, the Company expects to collect a portion of the $0.8 million which will represent reimbursement of costs incurred to complete development.
Acquisition of 4titude Limited  



 On October 5, 2017, the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited (“4titude”), a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications.
The acquisition of 4titude will expand the Company’s existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The aggregate purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.8 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.4 million.
The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the 4titude acquisition as follows (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 19  



 Table of Contents  



 The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identified intangible assets include customer relationships (excess earnings method) of $21.4 million with a useful life of 10 years, completed technology (relief from royalty method) of $5.2 million with a useful life of 13 years, backlog (excess earnings method) of $0.4 million with a useful life of 1 year and trademarks (excess earnings method) of $0.2 million with a useful life of 1 year.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 10.4 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
At the closing of the acquisition of 4titude, a cash payment of $0.4 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Goodwill is primarily the result of expected synergies from combining the operations of 4titude with the Company’s operations and is not deductible for tax purposes.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, revenue and net income from 4titude recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $3.9 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the net income or loss included recurring charges of $0.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the net loss also included non-recurring charges of $1.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company incurred $0.5 million in non-recurring transaction costs with respect to the 4titude acquisition, which were recorded in "Selling, general and administrative" expenses within the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
There were no transaction costs related to the 4titude acquisition during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Other   



 On April 20, 2018, the Company acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation (“BioSpeciMan”), a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
BioSpeciMan, founded in 2002, provides temperature controlled biological sample storage services to an attractive mix of pharma, biotech and contract lab customers.
This acquisition has expanded customer relationships and geographic reach within its growing sample management storage services business in the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The total cash payment made by the Company was $5.2 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
The Company allocated the purchase price of $5.2 million based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date, which included $0.3 million of accounts receivable, $2.6 million of customer relationships, $2.7 million of goodwill and $0.7 million of assumed liabilities.
The Company applied the excess earnings method, a variation of the income approach to determine the fair value of the customer relationship intangible asset.
The purchase price allocation was based on a preliminary valuation which is subject to further adjustments within the measurement period when additional information becomes available.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.
At the acquisition date, a cash payment of $0.5 million was held back for potential working capital adjustments and the sellers' satisfaction of general representations and warranties.
These holdback payments were ascribed to the purchase price.
6.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets  



 Goodwill represents the excess of net book value over the estimated fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a reporting unit.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more often if impairment indicators are present at the reporting unit level.
No triggering events indicating goodwill impairment occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Please refer to Note 7, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the goodwill impairment testing performed during fiscal year 2018.
The components of the Company’s goodwill by operating segment at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $234.6 million primarily related to the acquisition of GENEWIZ which represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Please refer to the Note 5 "Acquisitions" for further information on this transaction.
The components of the Company’s identifiable intangible assets as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $7.8 million and $5.5 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
21  



 Table of Contents  



 Estimated future amortization expense for the intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal year 2019, the subsequent four fiscal years and thereafter is as follows (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 7.
Line of Credit  



 The Company maintains a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the credit agreement.
The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022 and expires no less than 90 days prior to the term loan expiration.
The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.
On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million Senior Secured Term Loan Facility (the “term loan”) with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (collectively, the “lenders”).
Coincident with the entry into the term loan agreement, the Company amended certain terms and conditions of the credit agreement and entered into an arrangement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Based on the amended terms of the credit agreement, the line of credit continues to provide for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability.
Borrowing base availability under the amended line of credit excludes collateral related to fixed assets and is redetermined periodically based on certain percentage of certain eligible U.S. assets, including accounts receivable and inventory.
The sub-limits for letters of credit were reduced to $7.5 million under the amended terms of the credit agreement.
All outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement are guaranteed by the Company and BioStorage Technologies, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiary, and subordinated to the obligations under the term loan which are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor, other than accounts receivable and inventory.
Please refer to Note 8, “Debt”, for further information on the term loan transaction.
There were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining line of credit financing as deferred financing costs which are presented within "Other assets" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Deferred financing costs were $0.5 million at both December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
The Company was in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
8.
Debt  



 Term Loans  



 On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million term loan with the lenders.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
On November 15, 2018, the Company entered into an incremental Amendment (the “Amendment”) to the existing credit agreement.
Under the Amendment, the Company obtained an incremental term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million.
The proceeds of the incremental loan were used to finance a portion of the purchase price for the Company’s acquisition of GENEWIZ.
The term loan was issued at $340.5 million, or 97.3% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $9.5 million, or 2.7%, which represented financing cost of the loan.
22  



 Table of Contents  



Except as provided in the Amendment, the incremental loan is subject to the same terms and conditions as set forth in the existing credit agreement.
The loan principal amount may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus any additional amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Under the terms of the Amendment, the Company may elect that the borrowings comprising the incremental loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to (a) the Alternate Base Rate (the “ABR”) plus 1.50%; or (b) the Adjusted LIBOR plus 2.50%.
ABR is equal to the highest of (a) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%, (b) the prime rate, or (c) one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.00%.
The LIBOR is equal to the rate for eurodollar deposits in the London interbank market for a period of one, two, three or six months, in each case selected by the Company.
“Adjusted LIBOR” is the LIBOR as adjusted for statutory reserve requirements for eurodollar liabilities.
The Company’s obligations under the term loan are also guaranteed by BioStorage Technologies, Inc. as the guarantor, subject to the terms and conditions of the term loan agreement.
The Company and the guarantor granted the lenders a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor to secure the repayment of the term loan.
The term loan matures and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024.
The principal is payable in installments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st of each year, commencing on March 31, 2018, with any remaining amount of principal becoming due and payable on the maturity date.
All accrued and unpaid interest on Borrowings shall be due on the last day of each interest period elected by the Company for such Borrowings, except for interest periods of more than three months in which case all accrued and unpaid interest shall be due and payable every three months.
Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, the Company may redeem the term loan at any time at its option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the term loan agreement.
Commencing on December 31, 2018, the Company will be required to make principal payments equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement.
Such prepayments are equal to 50% of the preceding year excess cash flow amount reduced by voluntary prepayments of the term loan, subject to certain limitations.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining term loan financing as deferred financing costs which are presented as a reduction of the term loan principal balance in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Such costs are accreted over the term of the loan using the effective interest rate method and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
At December 31, 2018, deferred financing costs were $11.6 million.
If any of the events of default occur and are not waived or cured within applicable grace periods, any unpaid amounts under the term loan agreement will bear an annual interest rate at 2.00% above the rate otherwise applicable under the terms and conditions of such agreement.
The term loan agreement does not contain financial maintenance covenants.
As of December 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.
In connection with the GENEWIZ acquisition, we assumed three five-year term loans for a total of $3.3 million and two one-year short term loans for a total of RMB 22 million or $3.2 million.
The three five-year term loans were initiated during 2016 and mature in 2021.
The principal payments are payable in eight installments equal to 12.5% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on December 14th and June 14th of each year, commencing in 2017.
The three five-year term loans were secured to fund equipment payments and the interest rates were equal to the LIBOR plus 3.1%.
The two one-year term loans were borrowed to fund operations.
Both of the one-year term loans were initiated in 



 23  



 Table of Contents  



2018 and mature in 2019.
The principal payments are due at the maturity date.
The interest rates of these two loans were 4.56% and 4.35%.
There is no deferred financing costs related to either the five-year term loans or the one-year term loans.
At December 31, 2018, we had an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $2.1 million and $3.2 million for the three five-year term loans and two one-year short term loans, respectively.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the weighted average stated interest rate paid on all oudtanding debt was 5.0%.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company incurred aggregate interest expense of $5.3 million in connection with the borrowings, including $0.4 million of deferred financing costs amortization.
As of December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the outstanding principal balance of the debt no our balance sheet approximates its carrying value.
The fair value was determined based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for this term loan or a similar loan instrument.
The following are the future minimum principal payment obligations under all of the Company’s outstanding debt as of December 31, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Capital Lease Obligations  



 In connection with the GENEWIZ acquisition, the Company assumed five capital lease obligations related to leases of equipment.
Three of the capital leases were initiated in 2016 and mature in 2021 and two of them were initiated in 2017 and mature in 2022.
The outstanding principal balance of these obligations is included within “Other long-term liabilities” on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
See below for the future minimum principal payment obligations under the capital lease obligations as of December 31, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 9.
Income Taxes  



  The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $5.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and the three months ended December 31, 2017.
118.
As a result of the new guidance issued and additional work to complete the calculation of its federal toll charge, the Company reduced its provisional accrual for federal, state and foreign taxes by net $1.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The remaining portion of the Company’s U.S. valuation allowance is related to the realizability of certain state tax credits and net operating loss carry-forwards.
The Company continues to maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in certain foreign tax-paying components as of December 31, 2018.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded $37.4 million of deferred tax liabilities in purchase accounting in connection with the acquisition of GENEWIZ.
Also, as a result of the acquisition, the Company recorded a $13.4 million reserve in purchase accounting for unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions taken by GENEWIZ in prior years.
118 and has decided to maintain its indefinite reinvestment assertion.
The Company has not accrued foreign withholding tax costs on unremitted earnings.
The Company recognizes interest related to unrecognized benefits as a component of the income tax benefit, of which $0.1 million was recognized during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The Company currently anticipates that it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $0.1 million within the next twelve months.
25  



 Table of Contents  



 10.
Other Balance Sheet Information  



 The following is a summary of accounts receivable at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The following is a summary of inventories at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $14.9 million and $15.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
At December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $6.6 million and $5.6 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The balance at December 31, 2018 included $0.9 million capitalized direct costs from the GENEWIZ acquisition.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company capitalized direct costs of $0.1 million associated with the development of software for its internal use.
The Company establishes reserves for estimated costs of product warranties based on historical information.
Product warranty reserves are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized, and retrofit accruals are recorded at the time retrofit programs are established.
The Company’s warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure and supplier warranties on parts delivered to the Company.
The following is a summary of product warranty and retrofit activity on a gross basis for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 26  



 Table of Contents  



 11.
Stock-Based Compensation  



 The Company may issue to eligible employees restricted stock units and restricted stock awards (collectively "restricted stock units") and stock options which vest upon the satisfaction of a performance condition and/or a service condition.
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period.
Additionally, the Company assesses the likelihood of achieving the performance goals against previously established performance targets in accordance with the Company’s long-term equity incentive plan for stock-based awards that vest upon or after the satisfaction of these goals.
The Company grants restricted stock units that vest over a required service period and/or achievement of certain operating performance goals.
The following table reflects restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Among the total restricted stock units granted, 28,493 shares were granted to the employees who belong to the discontinued operations during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
No shares were granted to the employees who belong to the discontinued operations during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Time-Based Grants  



 Restricted stock units granted with a required service period typically have three-year vesting schedules in which one-third of awards vest at the first anniversary of the grant date, one-third vest at the second anniversary of the grant date and one-third vest at the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to the award holders meeting service requirements.
Stock Grants  



 The stock awards granted to the members of the Company’s Board of Directors include restricted stock awards and deferred restricted stock units.
Certain members of the Board of Directors have elected to defer receiving their annual awards of restricted stock units and related quarterly dividends until they attain a certain age or cease to provide services as the Company’s Board members.
Restricted stock awards granted in fiscal years 2017 and 2018 are subject to a one-year vesting period.
27  



 Table of Contents  



 Performance-Based Grants  



 Performance-based restricted stock units are earned based on the achievement of performance criteria established by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee and approved by the Board of Directors.
The criteria for performance-based awards have threshold, target and maximum performance goals.
Performance below the threshold financial metric results in award forfeiture.
Performance goals for each plan will be measured over a three-year period for each plan and at the end of the period.
Around the third anniversary of each plan’s grant date, the Company’s Board of Directors determines the number of units earned for participants who continue to meet the service requirements on the vest date.
Restricted Stock Unit Activity  



 The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity for the three months ended December 31, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $30.49 and $34.25, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $27.1 million and $19.0 million, respectively.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company remitted $14.2 million and $6.3 million, respectively, collected from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.
As of December 31, 2018, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $38.4 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 2.0 years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan  



 The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower.
There were no shares purchased by employees under the employee stock purchase plan during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
28  



 Table of Contents  



 12.
Earnings per Share  



 The calculations of basic and diluted net income per share and basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding are as follows for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands, except per share data):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 During the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, antidilutive restricted stock units of 261,384 and 190,266, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
13.
Revenue   



 Revenue Recognition (Performance Obligations)  



 The Company generates revenue from the following sources:  



   ·    Products, including sales of tool automation and automated cold sample management systems, atmospheric and vacuum robots, contamination control solutions, as well as consumables and spare parts.
·    Services, including repairs, upgrades, diagnostic support, installation, as well as biological sample services such as DNA sequencing, gene synthesis, molecular biology, bioinformatics, biological sample storage and other support services.
The company recognizes revenue for the transfer of such promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those products or services.
Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when or as the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligation 



 29  



 Table of Contents  



occurs.
To determine the amount of consideration the Company expects to be entitled to and whether transfer of control has occurred, the Company applies the following five-step model:  



   ·    Identify the contract with a customer.
Within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment, contracts are typically short-term with the exception of service-type warranty contracts, which generally have a stated contract term that is greater than one year.
Within the Brooks Life Sciences segment, contracts are both short and long-term.
Long-term contracts within this segment relate to the sale of products with attached service-type warranty contracts that generally have a stated contract term that is greater than one year.
Contracts within both operating segments may contain acceptance provisions where the Company is required to obtain technical acceptance from the customer upon completion of installation services and evidence of the systems functional performance within the customer’s operating environment.
·    Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
Performance obligations include the sale of products and services.
These contracts include multiple promises and as a result, the Company is required to evaluate each promise and determine whether the promise qualifies as a performance obligation within the contract.
Contracts may contain the option to acquire additional products or services at defined prices.
The Company reviews the pricing of these options to determine whether the option would exist independently of the current contract.
If the pricing of contract options provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the current contract, the Company accounts for the option as a separate performance obligation.
·    Determine the transaction price.
The transaction price of the Company’s contracts with its customer is generally fixed, based on the amounts to be contractually billed to the customer.
The period between transfer of control of the performance obligations within a customer contract and timing of payment is generally within one year.
As a result, the Company’s contracts typically do not include significant financing components.
·    Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
For customer contracts that contain more than one performance obligation, the Company allocates the total transaction consideration to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation within the contract.
The Company relies on either observable standalone sales or an expected cost plus margin approach to determine the standalone selling price of offerings, depending on the nature of the performance obligation.
·    Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations by transferring a product or service either at a point in time or over time, when the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligation has occurred.
Control is evidenced by the 



 30  



 Table of Contents  



customer’s ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially all the remaining benefits from the performance obligation.
Revenue from third-party sales for which the Company does not meet the criteria for gross revenue recognition is recognized on a net basis.
All other revenue is recognized on a gross basis.
As a result of applying this five-step model under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenues from its sale of products and services as follows:  



   ·    Products: Revenue from the sale of standard products is recognized upon their transfer of control to the customer, which is generally upon delivery.
Delivery is considered complete at either the time of shipment or arrival at destination, based on the agreed upon terms within the contract.
The Company’s payment terms for the sale of standard products are typically 30 to 60 days.
The Company recognizes revenue as work progresses based on a percentage of actual labor hours incurred on the project to-date and total estimated labor hours expected to be incurred on the project.
The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment.
The Company has concluded that using the percentage of labor hours incurred to estimated labor hours needed to complete the project most appropriately depicts the Company’s efforts towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
The Company estimates a loss on a contract by comparing total estimated contract revenue to the total estimated contract costs and recognizes a loss during the period in which it becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, the terms of long-term contracts provide for progress billings based on completion of milestones or other defined phases of work.
Additionally, due to certain billing constraints within contracts, the customer may retain a portion of the contract price until completion of the contract.
·    Services: Service revenue is generally recognized ratably over time or on an output method, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit of these services as they are performed.
Payments related to service-type warranties may be made up front or proportionally over the contract term.
Payment due or received from the customers prior to rendering the associated services are recorded as a contract liability.
The Company disaggregates revenue based on the transfer of control of the underlying performance obligations, the geographic location in which customer orders are placed and by reporting unit.
The Company transfers control of its performance obligations at a point in time or over time, depending on the nature of the product or service being provided.
As discussed within Item 7.
The Company also consists of five reporting units, including three reporting units within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group reporting segment and two reporting units within the Brooks Life Sciences reporting segment.
The following is a reconciliation of revenue disaggregated in a manner discussed above to segment revenue for the three month period ended December 31, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The following is revenue by geographic location and reporting unit for the three months ended December 31, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Contract Balances  



  Accounts Receivable, Net.
Accounts receivable represent rights to consideration in exchange for products or services that have been transferred by the Company, when payment is unconditional and only the passage of time is required 



 32  



 Table of Contents  



before payment is due.
Accounts receivable do not bear interest and are recorded at the invoiced amount.
The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts representing its best estimate of probable credit losses related to its existing accounts receivable and their net realizable value.
Accounts receivable, net were $164.5 million and $125.2 million at December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
Contract Assets.
Contract assets represent rights to consideration in exchange for products or services that have been transferred by the Company, when payment is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
These amounts typically relate to contracts within the Brooks Life Sciences segment where the right to payment is not present until completion of the contract or the achievement of specified milestones and the value of the products or services transferred exceed this constraint.
Contract assets are classified as current.
Deferred Commissions.
Deferred commissions represent a direct and incremental cost of obtaining a contract.
The Company classifies deferred commissions as noncurrent as the original amortization period of this asset is greater than one year.
Deferred commissions balances are included within Other assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Deferred commissions were $1.3 million and $1.5 million at December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
The Company recorded $0.2 million of amortization expense related to deferred commissions for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Contract Liabilities.
Contract liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to transfer products or services to a customer for which consideration has been received, or for which an amount of consideration is due from the customer.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a net basis at the contract level, depending on the contracts position at the end of each reporting period.
Contract liabilities were $31.1 million and $28.7 million at December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
Revenue recognized from the contract liability balance at October 1, 2018 was $12.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Remaining Performance Obligations.
Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations within contracts with an original expected contract term that is greater than one year and for which fulfillment of the contract has started as of the end of the reporting period.
The aggregate amount of transaction consideration allocated to remaining performance obligations as of December 31, 2018 was $36.4 million.
The following table summarizes when the Company expects to recognize the remaining performance obligations as revenue, the Company will recognize revenue associated with these performance obligations as transfer of control occurs:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Cost to Obtain and Fulfill a Contract  



 The Company capitalizes sales commissions when incurred if they are (i) incremental costs of obtaining a contract, (ii) expected to be recovered and (iii) have an expected amortization period that is greater than one year.
As part of the Company’s cumulative effect adjustment, incremental costs associated with obtaining a contract were capitalized and have been classified as deferred commissions within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company did not capitalize any sales commissions during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as the amount of sales commissions that qualified for 



 33  



 Table of Contents  



capitalization during the reporting period was insignificant.
Sales commissions incurred during the reporting period have been expensed as incurred.
The Company has concluded that none of its costs incurred in fulfillment of customer contracts meet the capitalization criteria.
The Company will account for shipping and handling activities as fulfillment activities and recognize the associated expense when transfer of control of the product has transferred to the customer.
14.
Segment Information  



 The Company operates in two reportable segments: Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group and Brooks Life Sciences.
Brooks Life Sciences consists of two operating segments aggregated into one reportable segment.
The Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment provides a variety of products, services and solutions that enable improved throughput and yield in controlled operating environments, as well as an extensive range of support services.
The solutions include atmospheric and vacuum robots, robotic modules, tool automation systems, contamination control of wafer carrier front opening unified pods and reticle management.
The support services include repair services, diagnostic support services, and installation services in support of the products, which enable the customers to maximize process tool uptime and productivity.
This segment also provides end-user customers with spare parts and productivity enhancement upgrades to maximize tool productivity.
The Brooks Life Sciences segment provides comprehensive life cycle sample management solutions to life science and bioscience customers including complete end-to-end “cold chain of custody” solutions and a variety of sample-based lab services such as genomic sequencing and synthesis to advance scientific research and support drug development.
The segment’s service offerings include sample storage, genomic sequencing, genomic synthesis, lab processing services, lab analysis, and other support services provided to a wide range of life science customers, including pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, biobanks and research institutes.
In conjunction with the acquisition of GENEWIZ during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the Company reassessed Brooks segment reporting structure and determined that GENEWIZ represents a separate operating segment based on ASC 280.
As permitted by ASC 280 Segment Reporting, the Company assessed and elected to aggregate the Sample Management operating segment with the GENEWIZ operating segment as a single reportable segment titled Brooks Life Sciences.
We have aggregated the two operating segments as one reporting segment based on similarities in long-term forecasted economic characteristics, particularly adjusted operating income, similarity in services they offer, the customers they serve, the nature of their service delivery models, and their regulatory environments.
Management formally assesses the long-term financial outlook of its operating segments on an annual basis as part of its strategic planning process and more frequently on an informal basis.
The customer bases of the operating segments overlap, serving life science and bioscience customers in the pharmaceutical, bio-technology, academic and government institutions.
Both operating segments, provide services relating to the biological samples needed to advance non-clinical and clinical research, serving scientific and business operations functions.
In a typical customer workflow, a biological sample is collected, processed and analyzed with results interpreted and used to make scientific judgements.
Critical or valuable samples are then annotated and stored for many years in environments where they can be easily retrieved for additional 



 34  



 Table of Contents  



study.
The operating segments provide services across this workflow.
Both operating segments services meeting standards of Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) set forth by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
The following is the summary of the financial information for the Company’s operating and reportable segments for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 and balances as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The following is a reconciliation of the Company’s operating and reportable segments’ operating income and segment assets to the corresponding amounts presented in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 and Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 35  



 Table of Contents  



 15.
Significant Customers  



 The Company had no customer that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, during each of the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
As of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables.
For purposes of determining the percentage of revenue generated from any of the Company’s original equipment manufacturer (the "OEM") customers, the Company does not include revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers who in turn sell to the OEMs.
If the Company included revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers supporting the Company’s OEM customers, the percentage of the Company’s total revenue derived from certain OEM customers would be higher.
16.
Commitments and Contingencies  



 Letters of Credit  



 As of December 31, 2018, the Company had approximately $1.3 million of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations.
These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from our customers in the event that the product is not delivered, or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms.
These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if the Company fails to meet certain contractual requirements.
None of these obligations were called during the three months ended December 31, 2018, and the Company currently does not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.
Purchase Commitments  



 The Company had non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $95.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
17.
Subsequent Events  



  Dividend  



 On January 30, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on March 22, 2019 to common stockholders of record as of March 1, 2019.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on the Company’s actual cash flows from operations, its financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
36  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 1.
Item 1A.
