 Item 1.
Consolidated Financial Statements  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands, except share and per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
3  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands, except per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
4  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
5  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
6  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited)  



 1.
Basis of Presentation  



 The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
2.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.6 million and $0.7 million, respectively, during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, and $3.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Derivative Instruments  



 The Company has transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Most of these transactions or balances are denominated in Euros, British Pounds and a variety of Asian currencies.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into, typically mature in three months or less.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy described below due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
Fair Value Measurements   



 The Company measures at fair value certain financial assets and liabilities, including cash equivalents and available for sale securities.
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 820, Fair Value Measurement and Disclosures, establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The following levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value:  



 Level 1 Inputs: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Level 2 Inputs: Observable inputs other than prices included in Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 Inputs: Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities and reflect an entity’s own assumptions in pricing assets or liabilities since they are supported by little or no market activity.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 In March 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
The entities have the option to apply the guidance retrospectively or in the period of adoption.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption in any period is permitted.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
In accordance with the provisions of the newly issued guidance, a lessee should recognize at the inception of the arrangement a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability initially measured at the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a 



 8  



 Table of Contents  



straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present the assets at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption of the newly issued guidance is permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
The standard should be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition, ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customer (“ASC 606”).
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The Company will adopt this standard effective October 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective method and will only apply this method to contracts that are not completed as of the effective date and all new contracts initiated on or after the effective date.
The modified retrospective method will result in the cumulative effect adjustment being recorded as of the effective date.
The Company has established an implementation team to assist with its assessment of the impact of the new revenue guidance on its operations, consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The implementation team is also responsible for evaluating and designing the necessary changes to the Company’s business processes, policies, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance.
The Company has established a project plan and has completed its initial contract assessments.
Based on the procedures performed to date, the Company expects changes to the consolidated balance sheet related to accounts receivable, contract assets, and contract liabilities, as well as, significant changes to the Company’s disclosures, to comply with the new disclosure requirements under ASC 606.
9  



 Table of Contents  



 Other  



 For further information with regard to the Company’s Significant Accounting Policies, please refer to Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
3.
Marketable Securities  



 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Marketable securities reported as current assets represent investments that mature within one year from the balance sheet date.
Long-term marketable securities represent investments with maturity dates greater than one year from the balance sheet date.
The securities are valued using matrix pricing and benchmarking and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices.
There were no sales of marketable securities during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018.
During each of the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, the Company sold marketable securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $3.6 million each and recognized net losses of less than $0.1 million.
As a result, during these periods, the Company collected cash proceeds of $3.5 million from the sale of marketable securities and reclassified net unrealized holding losses of less than $0.1 million from accumulated other comprehensive income into "Other expenses, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations as a result of these transactions.
The Company reviews the marketable securities for impairment at each reporting period to determine if any of the securities have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value.
As of June 30, 2018, the aggregate fair value of the marketable securities in an unrealized loss position was $42.8 million with a nominal loss, and was primarily comprised of U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government agencies, corporate securities, municipal securities and bank certificates of deposits.
There were no marketable securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2017.
Cash equivalents of $50.3 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 consist of money market funds and are classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in active markets.
Cash equivalents of $0.5 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 consist primarily of bank certificates of deposits with original maturities of less than 90 days and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
4.
Acquisitions  



 Acquisitions Completed in Fiscal Year 2018  



 Acquisition of BioSpeciMan   



 On April 20, 2018, the Company acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation (“BioSpeciMan”), a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
BioSpeciMan, founded in 2002, provides temperature controlled biological sample storage services to an attractive mix of pharma, biotech and contract lab customers.
This acquisition is expected to expand customer relationships and geographic reach within its growing sample management storage services business in the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The total cash payment made by the Company was $5.2 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
The Company allocated the purchase price of $5.2 million based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date, which included $0.3 million of accounts receivable, $2.6 million of customer relationships, $2.7 million of goodwill and $0.7 million of assumed liabilities.
The Company applied the excess earnings method, a variation of the income approach to determine the fair value of the customer relationship intangible asset.
The purchase price allocation was based on a preliminary valuation which is subject to further adjustments within the measurement period when additional information becomes available.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and is not tax deductible.
11  



 Table of Contents  



 At the acquisition date, a cash payment of $0.5 million was held back for potential working capital adjustments and the sellers' satisfaction of general representations and warranties.
These holdback payments were ascribed to the purchase price.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company incurred $0.2 million in transaction costs related to the BioSpeciMan acquisition.
Acquisition of Tec-Sem  



 On April 6, 2018, the Company acquired approximately 93% of the outstanding capital stock of Tec-Sem Group AG (“Tec-Sem”), a Switzerland-based manufacturer of semiconductor fabrication automation equipment with a focus on reticle management.
The total cash payment made by the Company as of June 30, 2018 was $12.8 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
The Company expects to acquire the remaining 7% noncontrolling interest upon the completion of certain procedural steps.
The acquisition of Tec-Sem expands the Company’s contamination control solutions business within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
The preliminary amounts recorded were as follows (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identifiable intangible assets include completed technology (excess earnings method) of $8.4 million with a useful life of 10 years, backlog (excess earnings method) of $1.6 million with a useful life of 1 year, and customer relationships (distributor method) of $0.7 million with a useful life of 9 years.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 8.6 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
Goodwill of $7.6 million largely reflects the potential synergies and expansion of technical capabilities to the Company's existing contamination control solutions business.
The goodwill from this acquisition is reported within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and is not tax deductible.
As part of the acquisition, the Company assumed all the assets and liabilities of Tec-Sem’s Swiss defined benefit plan, which covered substantially all its full-time employees.
At acquisition date, the plan was fully funded for each employee’s pension contribution plus an expected rate of return equal to the statutory discount rate.
Total plan assets were $6.2 million at acquisition date.
The Company recorded an additional liability of $3.3 million for the unfunded 



 12  



 Table of Contents  



projected benefit obligation related to each plan participant’s future services.
The total liability for this plan is $9.5 million.
The fair value of the Company’s noncontrolling interest in Tec-Sem represents the expected amount to be settled in cash upon acquisition of the remaining 7% interest.
The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date.
The revenues and net loss from Tec-Sem included in the Company's consolidated results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 were $4.3 million and $1.6 million, respectively.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the net loss included $0.7 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories and $1.0 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company incurred $0.1 million in transaction costs related to the Tec-Sem acquisition.
Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest for both the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 was $0.1 million which represents the 7% minority interest in Tec-Sem.
The escrow at closing had a balance of $2.6 million which consisted of $1.8 million related to potential working capital adjustments and the sellers' satisfaction of general representations and warranties.
The remaining $0.8 million of the escrow balance is related to a performance obligation that the Company assumed at the acquisition date for the transfer of non-core wafer stocker technology to an unrelated third party.
Upon successful delivery of such technology, the Company expects to collect a portion of the $0.8 million which will represent reimbursement of costs incurred to complete development.
Acquisition of 4titude Limited  



 On October 5, 2017, the Company acquired all the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited (“4titude”), a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications.
The acquisition of 4titude will expand the Company’s existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The aggregate purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.8 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.4 million.
The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the 4titude acquisition as follows (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The Company applied variations of the income approach to estimate the fair values of the intangibles assets acquired.
The identified intangible assets include customer relationships (excess earnings method) of $21.4 million with a useful life of 10 years, completed technology (relief from royalty method) of $5.2 million with a useful life of 13 years, 



 13  



 Table of Contents  



backlog (excess earnings method) of $0.4 million with a useful life of 1 year and trademarks (excess earnings method) of $0.2 million with a useful life of 1 year.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 10.4 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
At the closing of the acquisition of 4titude, a cash payment of $0.4 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
The escrow balance was $0.2 million as of June 30, 2018.
Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Goodwill is primarily the result of expected synergies from combining the operations of 4titude with the Company’s operations and is not deductible for tax purposes.
During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the net income or loss included recurring charges of $1.0 million and $3.1 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the net loss also included non-recurring charges of $1.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories.
There was no such charge during the three months ended June 30, 2018.
There were no transaction costs related to the 4titude acquisition during the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The Company paid to the sellers cash consideration of $34.3 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
At the closing of the acquisition of PBMMI, a cash payment of $3.3 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
This escrow arrangement is administered by the Company on behalf of the sellers.
As of June 30, 2018, the escrow balance related to satisfaction of the sellers' indemnification obligations was $2.7 million, and the $0.4 million Novare escrow balance had been released.
During the 



 14  



 Table of Contents  



nine months ended June 30, 2018, revenue and net income from PBMMI recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $8.0 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the net income included recurring charges of $0.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
Please refer to Note 3, "Acquisitions" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on PBMMI acquisition.
Acquisition of Cool Lab, LLC  



 On November 28, 2016, the Company acquired 100% of the equity of Cool Lab, LLC ("Cool Lab") from BioCision, LLC ("BioCision").
The Company held a 20% equity ownership interest in BioCision prior to the acquisition.
The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Cool Lab acquisition.
The purchase price allocation had been finalized as of June 30, 2018.
Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.
The Company recorded a liability of $0.7 million in the purchase price allocation that represented a pre-acquisition contingency incurred on the acquisition date.
The obligation is related to a rebate that is due to a particular customer if the annual product sales volume metrics exceed threshold amounts under the provisions of the contract assumed by the Company.
Fair value of such liability was determined based on a probability-weighted discounted cash flow model.
The carrying amount of the liability was $0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the net income or loss included recurring charges of $0.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
5.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets  



 Goodwill represents the excess of net book value over the estimated fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a reporting unit.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more often if impairment indicators are present at the reporting unit level.
No triggering events indicating goodwill impairment occurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment assessment on April 1st of each fiscal year.
In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other, the Company initially assesses qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value.
If the Company determines, based on this assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, it performs a quantitative goodwill impairment test by comparing the reporting unit’s fair value with its carrying value.
An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, up to the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
No impairment loss is recognized if the fair value of the reporting exceeds its carrying value.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company completed the annual goodwill impairment test for its five reporting units and determined that no adjustment to goodwill was necessary.
The Company conducted a qualitative assessment for three reporting units within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and determined that it was more likely than not that their fair values were more than their carrying values.
The Company performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test for the fourth 



 15  



 Table of Contents  



reporting unit within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and for the Brooks Life Science Systems reporting unit.
The Company determined that no adjustment to goodwill was necessary for these two reporting units since their fair values significantly exceeded their respective carrying values.
The components of the Company’s goodwill by operating segment at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $48.6 million primarily related to the acquisitions of 4titude, Tec-Sem and BioSpeciMan which represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Please refer to the Note 4 "Acquisitions" for further information on this transaction.
The components of the Company’s identifiable intangible assets as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $17.7 million and $12.7 million, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Estimated future amortization expense for the intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal year 2018, the subsequent four fiscal years and thereafter is as follows (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 16  



 Table of Contents  



 6.
Equity Method Investments  



 The Company accounts for certain of its investments using the equity method of accounting and records its proportionate share of the investee’s earnings in its results of operations with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the investment.
ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc.
The Company and ULVAC Corporation of Chigasaki, Japan each own a 50% stake in the joint venture, ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc (“UCI”).
UCI manufactures and sells cryogenic vacuum pumps, principally to ULVAC Corporation.
The carrying value of the investment in UCI was $37.1 million and $28.6 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded income of $1.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded income of $4.9 million and $7.7 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings.
Management fee payments received by the Company from UCI were $0.3 million during each of the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Management fee payments received by the Company from UCI were $0.8 million during each of the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
7.
Line of Credit  



 The Company maintains a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in the credit agreement.
The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022 and expires no less than 90 days prior to the term loan expiration.
The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.
On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million Senior Secured Term Loan Facility (the “term loan”) with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (collectively, the “lenders”).
Coincident with the entry into the term loan agreement, the Company amended certain terms and conditions of the credit agreement and entered into an arrangement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Based on the amended terms of the credit agreement, the line of credit continues to provide for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability.
Borrowing base availability under the amended line of credit excludes collateral related to fixed assets and is redetermined periodically based on certain percentage of certain eligible U.S. assets, including accounts receivable and inventory.
The sub-limits for letters of credit were reduced to $7.5 million under the amended terms of the credit agreement.
All outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement are guaranteed by the Company and BioStorage Technologies, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiary, and subordinated to the obligations under the term loan which are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor, other than accounts receivable and inventory.
Please refer to Note 8, “Debt”, for further information on the term loan transaction.
There were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining line of credit financing as deferred financing costs which are presented within "Other assets" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Deferred financing costs were $0.5 million at both June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
The Company was in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
17  



 Table of Contents  



 8.
Debt  



 On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million term loan with the lenders.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
The Company incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
The loan proceeds are to be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.
The loan principal amount may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus any additional amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Under the terms of the term loan agreement, the Company may elect for the loan to bear an interest rate as Eurodollar Borrowings or as Alternate Base Rate Borrowings.
Interest applicable to Eurodollar Borrowings is based on the Adjusted LIBO Rate plus applicable margin of 2.50%.
The Adjusted LIBO Rate is the rate appearing on Bloomberg screen LIBOR01 which gets reset at the beginning of each selected interest period based on the LIBOR rate then in effect.
Interest applicable to ABR Borrowings is based on the Alternate Base Rate plus applicable margin of 1.50%.
Alternate Base Rate is determined based on the highest of: (a) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%, (b) prime rate plus 1.00%, or (c) one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.00%.
The Company’s obligations under the term loan are also guaranteed by BioStorage Technologies, Inc. as the guarantor, subject to the terms and conditions of the term loan agreement.
The Company and the guarantor granted the lenders a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor to secure the repayment of the term loan.
The term loan matures and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024.
The principal is payable in installments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st of each year, commencing on March 31, 2018, with any remaining amount of principal becoming due and payable on the maturity date.
All accrued and unpaid interest on Borrowings shall be due on the last day of each interest period elected by the Company for such Borrowings, except for interest periods of more than three months in which case all accrued and unpaid interest shall be due and payable every three months.
Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, the Company may redeem the term loan at any time at its option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the term loan agreement.
Commencing on December 31, 2018, the Company will be required to make principal payments equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement.
Such prepayments are equal to 50% of the preceding year excess cash flow amount reduced by voluntary prepayments of the term loan, subject to certain limitations.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining term loan financing as deferred financing costs which are presented as a reduction of the term loan principal balance in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Such costs are accreted over the term of the loan using the effective interest rate method and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
At June 30, 2018, deferred financing costs were $2.5 million.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, the weighted average stated interest rate paid on the term loan was 4.5%.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company incurred aggregate interest expense of $6.6 million in connection with the term loan borrowings, including $0.3 million of deferred financing costs amortization.
If any of the events of default occur and are not waived or cured within applicable grace periods, any unpaid amounts under the term loan agreement will bear an annual interest rate at 2.00% above the rate otherwise applicable under the terms and conditions of such agreement.
The term loan agreement does not contain financial maintenance 



 18  



 Table of Contents  



covenants.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.
The following are the future minimum principal payment obligations under the term loan as of June 30, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 As of June 30, 2018, estimated fair value of the term loan outstanding principal balance approximates its carrying value.
The fair value was determined based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for this term loan or a similar loan instrument.
9.
The tax provision for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily driven by the income generated during the quarter.
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $3.7 million and $9.9 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The provision recorded during each period was primarily driven by foreign income.
The Company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assesses the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis, considering the weight of both positive and negative evidence in making the assessment.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (“ASU 2016-09).
This adjustment resulted in a $4.0 million increase to retained 



 19  



 Table of Contents  



earnings and deferred tax asset for net prior year excess tax benefits, with a corresponding decrease to retained earnings for the establishment of valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset.
This increase to the valuation allowance was subsequently part of the valuation allowance reversal during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Under SAB 118, a company may report provisional amounts based on reasonable estimates where the accounting is incomplete.
These amounts are subject to adjustments during a measurement period of up to one year beginning in the reporting period of the enactment date.
The Company has estimated that its accumulated foreign earnings are $120.0 million which is a provisional amount subject to the measurement period described in Staff Accounting Bulletin 118.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company maintains its indefinite reinvestment assertion on foreign earnings.
The Company currently anticipates that it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $0.2 million within the next twelve months.
20  



 Table of Contents  



 10.
Other Balance Sheet Information  



 The following is a summary of accounts receivable at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The following is a summary of inventories at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $21.0 million and $23.5 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
At June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $5.5 million and $4.7 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company capitalized direct costs of $0.8 million associated with the development of software for its internal use.
The Company establishes reserves for estimated costs of product warranties based on historical information.
Product warranty reserves are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized, and retrofit accruals are recorded at the time retrofit programs are established.
The Company’s warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure and supplier warranties on parts delivered to the Company.
The following is a summary of product warranty and retrofit activity on a gross basis for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 21  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 11.
Stock-Based Compensation  



 The Company may issue to eligible employees restricted stock units and restricted stock awards (collectively "restricted stock units") and stock options which vest upon the satisfaction of a performance condition and/or a service condition.
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period.
Additionally, the Company assesses the likelihood of achieving the performance goals against previously established performance targets in accordance with the Company’s long-term equity incentive plan for stock-based awards that vest upon or after the satisfaction of these goals.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-09.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-09, the Company made an accounting policy election to continue accounting for forfeitures by applying an estimated forfeiture rate.
The adoption of ASU 2016-09 did not have an impact on the stock compensation expense amount recognized during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and accumulated deficit at June 30, 2018.
The Company grants restricted stock units that vest over a required service period and/or achievement of certain operating performance goals.
Restricted stock units granted with performance goals may also have a required service period following the achievement of all or a portion of the performance goals.
The following table reflects restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Time-Based Grants  



 Restricted stock units granted with a required service period typically have three-year vesting schedules in which one-third of awards vest at the first anniversary of the grant date, one-third vest at the second anniversary of the grant date and one-third vest at the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to the award holders meeting service requirements.
22  



 Table of Contents  



 Stock Grants  



 During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company granted 35,356 and 43,019 units, respectively, to the members of the Company's Board of Directors, including 26,539 and 28,065 units, respectively, that were compensation-related.
Compensation-related units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 are subject to a one-year vesting period starting from the grant date.
The units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 will vest on the date which is one day before the Company's 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
The units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2017 vested on January 30, 2018, which was one day before the Company's 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Certain members of the Board of Directors previously elected to defer receiving their annual awards of restricted shares of the Company stock and quarterly dividends until a future date.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company granted 7,130 and 13,065 units, respectively, related to such deferred annual restricted share awards as well as 1,687 and 1,889 units, respectively, related to deferred quarterly dividends.
Annual restricted share awards granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 are subject to a one-year vesting period starting from the grant date.
The units will vest on the date which is one day before the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, but certain holders have elected to defer the receipt of the Company shares until they attain a certain age or cease to provide services to the Company in their capacity as Board members.
Such units vested upon their issuance, but the settlement was deferred by certain holders for the same conditions, as described above.
Performance-Based Grants  



 Performance-based restricted stock units are earned based on the achievement of performance criteria established by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The criteria for performance-based awards are weighted and have threshold, target and maximum performance goals.
Performance below the minimum threshold for each financial metric results in award forfeitures.
Performance goals will be measured over a three year period at the end of fiscal year 2020 to determine the number of units earned by recipients who continue to meet a service requirement.
Units held by recipients who fail to meet the continued service requirement are forfeited.
Earned units for recipients who continue to meet the service requirements vest on the date the Company’s Board of Directors determines the number of units earned, which will be approximately the third anniversary of the grant date.
Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2016 also include provisions that allow participants to earn threshold, target and maximum awards ranging from 0% of the award for performance below the minimum threshold, 100% of the award for performance at target, and up to a maximum of 200% of the award if the Company achieves the maximum performance goals.
Restricted Stock Unit Activity  



 The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity for the nine months ended June 30, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 23  



 Table of Contents  



 The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $25.71 and $25.21, respectively.
The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $33.31 and $14.32, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $2.7 million and $2.9 million, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was $21.8 million and $14.8 million, respectively.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company remitted $7.2 million and $4.6 million, respectively, for withholding taxes on vested restricted stock units, of which $0.1 million was paid by the Company during the nine months ended June 30, 2017.
There were no taxes on vested restricted stock units paid by the Company during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company received $7.2 million and $4.6 million, respectively, in cash proceeds from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.
As of June 30, 2018, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $25.5 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 1.6 years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan  



 The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower.
There were 66,785 and 90,681 shares, respectively, purchased by employees under the employee stock purchase plan during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
12.
Earnings per Share  



 The calculations of basic and diluted net income per share and basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding are as follows for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands, except per share data):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, antidilutive restricted stock units of 190,266 were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
There were no antidilutive restricted stock units excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share, during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017 and three months ended June 30, 2018.
13.
Restructuring Charges  



 The restructuring charges recorded by the Company during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 were nominal.
During the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $0.8 million and $2.7 million, respectively.
The charges during the three months ended June 30, 2017 was primarily related to 



 24  



 Table of Contents  



severance in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
The charges during the nine months ended June 30, 2017 included $2.2 million in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment, $0.2 million in the Brooks Life Sciences segment and $0.3 million related to a company-wide restructuring action.
The following is a summary of activity related to the Company’s restructuring charges for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 As of June 30, 2018, accrued restructuring costs of $0.2 million were primarily attributable to the restructuring actions within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Accrued restructuring costs are expected to be paid within the next twelve months.
14.
The Company’s Chief Executive Officer is the Company’s chief operating decision maker.
The Company reports its financial results for two operating and reportable segments which consist of Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and Brooks Life Sciences segment.
25  



 Table of Contents  



 The following is the summary of the financial information for the Company’s operating and reportable segments for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and balances as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The following is a reconciliation of the Company’s operating and reportable segments’ operating income and segment assets to the corresponding amounts presented in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of 



 26  



 Table of Contents  



Operations for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 and Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 15.
The Company had one customer that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, at 12% and 10%, respectively, during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
As of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables.
For purposes of determining the percentage of revenue generated from any of the Company’s original equipment manufacturer (the "OEM") customers, the Company does not include revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers who in turn sell to the OEMs.
If the Company included revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers supporting the Company’s OEM customers, the percentage of the Company’s total revenue derived from certain OEM customers would be higher.
16.
Commitments and Contingencies  



 Letters of Credit  



 At June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had approximately $2.4 million and $3.5 million, respectively, of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations.
These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from our customers in the event that the product is not delivered, or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms.
These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if the Company fails to meet certain contractual requirements.
None of these obligations were called during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, and the Company currently does not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.
Purchase Commitments  



 The Company had non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $148.4 million and $122.0 million, respectively, at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
17.
Subsequent Events  



  Dividend  



 On July 31, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on September 28, 2018 to common stockholders of record as of September 7, 2018.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on the Company’s actual cash flows from operations, its financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
28  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 1.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
