 Item 1.
Consolidated Financial Statements  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands, except share and per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
3  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands, except per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
4  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
5  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



 (unaudited)  



 (In thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited consolidated financial statements.
6  



 Table of Contents  



 BROOKS AUTOMATION, INC.  



 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited)  



 1.
Basis of Presentation  



 The unaudited consolidated financial statements of Brooks Automation, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Brooks”, or the “Company”) included herein have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP").
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2017 was derived from the audited annual consolidated financial statements as of the period then ended.
2.
Changes in estimates are recorded in the period in which they occur and become known.
Net foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses totaled $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and $2.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Derivative Instruments  



 The Company has transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Most of these transactions or balances are denominated in Euros, British Pounds and a variety of Asian currencies.
The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations.
The forward contract arrangements that the Company enters into typically mature in three months or less.
These transactions do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Foreign exchange contract assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for these contracts.
Fair Value Measurements   



 The Company measures at fair value certain financial assets and liabilities, including cash equivalants and available for sale securities.
FASB Accounring Standards Codification (“the ASC”) 820, Fair Value Measurement and Disclosures, establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The following levels of inputs may be used to measure fair value:  



 Level 1 Inputs: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
Level 2 Inputs: Observable inputs other than prices included in Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 Inputs: Unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities and reflect an entity’s own assumptions in pricing assets or liabilities since they are supported by little or no market activity.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
The entities have the option to apply the guidance retrospectively or in the period of adoption.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption in any period is permitted.
In February 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting lease transactions.
In accordance with the provisions of the newly issued guidance, a lessee should recognize at the inception of the arrangement a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability initially measured at the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
For finance leases, interest on a lease liability should be recognized separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset, while for operating leases, total lease costs are recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For leases with a term of twelve months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying assets 



 8  



 Table of Contents  



to forgo a recognition of right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and record a lease expense on a straight-line basis.
Entities should determine at the inception of the arrangement whether a contract represents a lease or contains a lease which is defined as a right to control the use of identified property for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Additionally, entities should separate the lease components from the non-lease components and allocate the contract consideration on a relative standalone price basis in accordance with provisions of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018 and should be adopted via a modified retrospective approach with certain optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting credit losses.
The new guidance introduces a new "expected loss" impairment model that applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans, held-to-maturity debt securities and other financial assets.
Entities are required to estimate expected credit losses over the life of financial assets and record an allowance against the assets’ amortized cost basis to present them at the amount expected to be collected.
Additionally, the guidance amends the impairment model for available for sale debt securities and requires entities to determine whether all or a portion of the unrealized loss on such debt security is a credit loss.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption of the newly issued guidance is permitted for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
The standard should be applied as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance for reporting revenue recognition.
The guidance provides for the recognition of revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The Company expects to adopt the guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The Company has established an implementation team to analyze its current portfolio of customer contracts and determine the impact of adopting the guidance.
The implementation team is also responsible for evaluating and designing the necessary changes to the Company’s business processes, policies, systems and controls to support recognition and disclosure under the new guidance.
The Company has established a project plan and substantially completed its preliminary contract assessment.
The Company is currently in the process of completing this assessment and quantifying the implications of the new guidance adoption.
Based on the preliminary assessment, the Company anticipates that the new guidance will impact the timing of revenue recognition for a portion of its life science revenue which is currently accounted for under the percentage of completion method.
The Company may be required to recognize revenue for a portion of these arrangements at the point in time it satisfies performance obligations by transferring control over promised deliverables to customers in accordance with the contractual terms of each arrangement.
3.
Marketable Securities  



 The Company invests in marketable securities that are classified as available-for-sale and records them at fair value in the Company’s unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Marketable securities reported as current assets represent 



 9  



 Table of Contents  



investments that mature within one year from the balance sheet date.
Long-term marketable securities represent investments with maturity dates greater than one year from the balance sheet date.
The securities are valued using matrix pricing and benchmarking and classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices.
The Company reviews the marketable securities for impairment at each reporting period to determine if any of the securities have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value.
As of March 31, 2018, the aggregate fair value of the marketable securities in an unrealized loss position was $39.7 million and was comprised of U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government agencies, U.S. corporate securities, municipal securities and bank certificates of deposits.
There were no marketable securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2017.
Cash equivalents of $51.2 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 consist of money market funds and are classified within Level 1 of fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in active markets.
Cash equivalents of $0.5 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively at 



 10  



 Table of Contents  



March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 consist primarily of bank certificates of deposits with original maturities of less than 90 days and are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are not actively traded.
4.
Acquisitions  



 Acquisitions Completed in Fiscal Year 2018  



 Acquisition of 4titude Limited  



 On October 5, 2017, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of 4titude Limited (“4titude”), a U.K.-based manufacturer of scientific consumables for biological sample materials used in a variety of genomic and DNA analytical applications.
The acquisition of 4titude will expand the Company’s existing offerings of consumables and instruments within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
The aggregate purchase price of $65.1 million, net of cash acquired, consisted primarily of a cash payment of $64.8 million subject to working capital adjustments and the assumption of the seller’s liabilities of $0.4 million.
The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the 4titude acquisition.
The purchase price allocation is based on a preliminary valuation and is subject to further adjustments within the measurement period as additional information becomes available related to the fair value of such assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The Company will refine such fair value estimates as new information becomes available during the measurement period.
Any adjustments to the purchase price allocation will be made as soon as practicable but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
The preliminary amounts recorded were as follows (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Fair values of intangible assets acquired consisted of customer relationships of $21.4 million, completed technology of $5.2 million, backlog of $0.4 million and trademarks of $0.2 million.
The Company used the income approach in accordance with the excess-earnings method to estimate the fair values of customer relationships, backlog and trademarks equal to the present value of the after-tax cash flows attributable to each intangible asset.
The Company used the income approach in accordance with the relief-from-royalty method to estimate the fair value of the completed technology which is equal to the present value of the after-tax royalty savings attributable to owning that intangible asset.
The weighted average amortization periods for intangible assets acquired are 13 years for completed technology, 10 years for customer relationship intangible assets, 1 year for backlog and 1 year for trademarks.
The intangible assets acquired are amortized over the total weighted average period of 10.4 years using methods that approximate the pattern in which the economic benefits are expected to be realized.
At the closing of the acquisition of 4titude, a cash payment of $0.4 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
The escrow balance was $0.2 million as of March 31, 2018.
11  



 Table of Contents  



 Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired and has been assigned to the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Goodwill is primarily the result of expected synergies from combining the operations of 4titude with the Company’s operations and is not deductible for tax purposes.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, revenue and net loss from 4titude recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $7.8 million and $1.2 million, respectively.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the net loss included non-recurring charges of $1.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories.
During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the net loss included recurring charges of $1.0 million and $2.1 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company incurred $0.5 million and $1.0 million, respectively, in non-recurring transaction costs with respect to the 4titude acquisition which were recorded in "Selling, general and administrative" expenses within the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company paid to the sellers cash consideration of $34.3 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
As of December 31, 2017, the purchase price allocation is based on a preliminary valuation and subject to further adjustments when the Company obtains additional information during the measurement period.
At the closing of the acquisition of PBMMI, a cash payment of $3.3 million was placed into escrow which was ascribed to the purchase price.
This escrow arrangement is administered by the Company on behalf of the sellers.
As of March 31, 2018, the escrow balance related to satisfaction of the sellers' indemnification obligations was $2.7 million, and the Novare escrow balance had been released.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, revenue and net loss from PBMMI recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $4.8 million and $0.1 million, respectively.
During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the net loss included recurring charges of $0.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
Please refer to Note 3, "Acquisitions" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on PBMMI acquisition.
12  



 Table of Contents  



 Acquisition of Cool Lab, LLC  



 On November 28, 2016, the Company acquired 100% of the equity of Cool Lab, LLC ("Cool Lab") from BioCision, LLC ("BioCision").
The Company held a 20% equity ownership interest in BioCision prior to the acquisition.
The Company used a market participant approach to record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Cool Lab acquisition.
The purchase price allocation were finalized as of March 31, 2018.
Please refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this transaction.
The Company recorded a liability of $0.7 million in the purchase price allocation that represented a preacquisition contingency incurred on the acquisition date.
The obligation is related to a rebate that is due to a particular customer if the annual product sales volume metrics exceed threshold amounts under the provisions of the contract assumed by the Company.
Fair value of such liability was determined based on a probability weighted discounted cash flow model.
The carrying amount of the liability was $0.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, revenue and net loss from Cool Lab recognized in the Company’s results of operations were $1.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, the net loss included recurring charges of $0.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively, related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
5.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets  



 Goodwill represents the excess of net book value over the estimated fair value of net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of a reporting unit.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more often if impairment indicators are present at the reporting unit level.
The Company elected April 1 as its annual goodwill impairment assessment date and performs additional impairment tests if triggering events occur.
No triggering events indicating goodwill impairment occurred during the six months ended March 31, 2018.
Please refer to Note 6, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the goodwill impairment testing performed during fiscal year 2017.
The components of the Company’s goodwill by operating segment at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 13  



 Table of Contents  



 During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $41.6 million primarily related to the acquisition of 4titude which represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
Please refer to the Note 4 "Acquisitions" for further information on this transaction.
The components of the Company’s identifiable intangible assets as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $11.1 million and $8.4 million, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Estimated future amortization expense for the intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 and the subsequent four fiscal years is as follows (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 6.
Equity Method Investments  



 The Company accounts for certain of its investments using the equity method of accounting and records its proportionate share of the investee’s earnings in its results of operations with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the investment.
ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc.
The Company and ULVAC Corporation of Chigasaki, Japan each own a 50% stake in the joint venture, ULVAC Cryogenics, Inc (“UCI”).
UCI manufactures and sells cryogenic vacuum pumps, principally to ULVAC Corporation.
The carrying value of the investment in UCI was $35.1 million and $28.6 million, respectively, at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded income of $1.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded income of $3.6 million and $5.2 million, respectively, representing its proportionate share of UCI’s earnings.
Management fee payments received by the Company from UCI were $0.3 million and $0.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
Management fee payments received by the Company from UCI were $0.5 million during each of the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
7.
Line of Credit  



 The Company maintains a revolving line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A that provides for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability, as defined in 



 14  



 Table of Contents  



the line of credit agreement.
The line of credit matures on October 4, 2022 and expires no less than 90 days prior to the term loan expiration.
The proceeds from the line of credit are available for permitted acquisitions and general corporate purposes.
On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million Senior Secured Term Loan Facility (the “term loan”) with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (collectively, the “lenders”).
Coincident with the entry into the term loan agreement, the Company amended certain terms and conditions of the credit agreement and entered into an arrangement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Based on the amended terms of the credit agreement, the line of credit continues to provide for revolving credit financing of up to $75.0 million, subject to borrowing base availability.
Borrowing base availability under the amended line of credit excludes collateral related to fixed assets and is redetermined periodically based on certain percentage of certain eligible U.S. assets, including accounts receivable and inventory.
The sublimits for letters of credit were reduced to $7.5 million under the amended terms of the credit agreement.
All outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement are guaranteed by the Company and BioStorage Technologies, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiary (“guarantor”), and subordinated to the obligations under the term loan which are secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor, other than accounts receivable and inventory.
Please refer to Note 8, “Debt”, for further information on the term loan transaction.
There were no amounts outstanding under the line of credit as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining line of credit financing as deferred financing costs which are presented within "Other assets" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, deferred financing costs were $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
The line of credit contains certain customary representations and warranties, a financial covenant, affirmative and negative covenants, as well as events of default.
The Company was in compliance with the line of credit covenants as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
8.
Debt  



 On October 4, 2017, the Company entered into a $200.0 million term loan with the lenders.
The term loan was issued at $197.6 million, or 98.8% of its par value, resulting in a discount of $2.4 million, or 1.2%, which represented loan origination fees paid at the closing.
The Company incurred additional deferred financing costs of $0.4 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018.
The loan proceeds are to be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.
The loan principal amount may be increased by an aggregate amount equal to $75.0 million plus any voluntary repayments of the term loans plus any additional amount such that the secured leverage ratio of the Company is less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Under the terms of the term loan agreement, the Company may elect for the loan to bear an interest rate as Eurodollar Borrowings or as Alternate Base Rate, or ABR Borrowings.
Interest applicable to Eurodollar Borrowings is based on the Adjusted LIBO Rate plus applicable margin of 2.50%.
The Adjusted LIBO Rate is the rate appearing on Bloomberg screen LIBOR01 which gets reset at the beginning of each selected interest period based on the LIBOR rate then in effect.
Interest applicable to ABR Borrowings is based on the Alternate Base Rate plus applicable margin of 1.50%.
Alternate Base Rate is determined based on the highest of: (a) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%, (b) prime rate plus 1.00%, or (c) one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.00%.
The Company’s obligations under the term loan are also guaranteed by BioStorage Technologies, Inc. as the guarantor, subject to the terms and conditions of the term loan agreement.
The Company and the guarantor granted the lenders a perfected first priority security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantor to secure the repayment of the term loan.
The term loan matures and becomes fully payable on October 4, 2024.
The principal is payable in installments equal to 0.25% of the initial principal amount of the term loans on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th and December 31st of each year, commencing on March 31,2018, with any remaining amount of principal becoming due and payable on the maturity date.
All accrued and unpaid interest on Borrowings shall be due on the last day of each interest period elected 



 15  



 Table of Contents  



by the Company for such Borrowings, except for interest periods of more than three months in which case all accrued and unpaid interest shall be due and payable every three months.
Subject to certain conditions stated in the term loan agreement, the Company may redeem the term loan at any time at its option without a significant premium or penalty, except for a repricing transaction, as defined in the term loan agreement.
Commencing on December 31, 2018, the Company will be required to make principal payments equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement.
Such prepayments are equal to 50% of the preceding year excess cash flow amount reduced by voluntary prepayments of the term loan, subject to certain limitations.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining term loan financing as deferred financing costs which are presented as a reduction of the term loan principal balance in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Such costs are accreted over the term of the loan using the effective interest rate method and are included in “Interest expense” in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
At March 31, 2018, deferred financing costs were $2.6 million.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the weighted average stated interest rate paid on the term loan was 4%.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company incurred aggregate interest expense of $4.2 million in connection with the term loan borrowings, which included $0.2 million of deferred financing costs amortization.
If any of the events of default occur and are not waived or cured within applicable grace periods, any unpaid amounts under the term loan agreement will bear an annual interest rate at 2.00% above the rate otherwise applicable under the terms and conditions of such agreement.
The term loan agreement does not contain financial maintenance covenants.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and conditions under the term loan agreement.
The following are the future minimum principal payment obligations under the term loan as of March 31, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 As of March 31, 2018, estimated fair value of the term loan outstanding principal balance approximates its carrying value.
The fair value was determined based on observable market inputs and classified within Level 2 of fair value hierarchy due to a lack of an active market for this term loan or a similar loan instrument.
9.
Income Taxes   



 The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $43.9 million and $41.0 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2018.
The tax benefit recorded during each period was primarily driven by a discrete 



 16  



 Table of Contents  



benefit due to the reversal of a valuation allowance against U.S. net deferred tax assets during the three months ended March 31, 2018 in the amount of $46.2 million.
This benefit for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 was partially offset by the tax provisions related to foreign income.
The Company recorded an income tax provision of $3.4 million and $6.2 million, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2017.
The provision recorded during each period was primarily driven by foreign income.
The Company evaluates the realizability of its deferred tax assets by tax-paying component and assesses the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis, considering the weight of both positive and negative evidence in making the assessment.
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted the Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.
This adjustment resulted in a $4.0 million increase to retained earnings and deferred tax asset for net prior year excess tax benefits, with a corresponding decrease to retained earnings for the establishment of valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset.
This increase to the valuation allowance was subsequently part of the valuation allowance reversal during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018.
Under SAB 118, a company may report provisional amounts based on reasonable estimates where the accounting is incomplete.
These amounts are subject to adjustments during a measurement period of up to one year beginning in the reporting period of the enactment date.
The Company has estimated that its accumulated foreign earnings are $120.0 million which is a provisional amount subject to the measurement period described in Staff Accounting Bulletin 118.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company maintains its indefinite reinvestment assertion on foreign earnings.
The Company currently anticipates that it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $0.2 million within the next twelve months.
10.
Other Balance Sheet Information  



 The following is a summary of accounts receivable at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The following is a summary of inventories at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Reserves for excess and obsolete inventory were $21.5 million and $23.5 million, respectively, at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $5.0 million and $4.7 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, the Company capitalized direct costs of $0.3 million associated with development of software for its internal use.
The Company establishes reserves for estimated costs of product warranties based on historical information.
Product warranty reserves are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized, and retrofit accruals are recorded at the time 



 18  



 Table of Contents  



retrofit programs are established.
The Company’s warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, utilization levels, material usage, service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure and supplier warranties on parts delivered to the Company.
The following is a summary of product warranty and retrofit activity on a gross basis for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 11.
Stock-Based Compensation  



 The Company may issue to eligible employees restricted stock units and restricted stock awards (collectively "restricted stock units") and stock options which vest upon the satisfaction of a performance condition and/or a service condition.
The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period.
Additionally, the Company assesses the likelihood of achieving the performance goals against previously established performance targets in accordance with the Company’s long-term equity incentive plan for stock-based awards that vest upon or after the satisfaction of these goals.
19  



 Table of Contents  



 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted the Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-09, “Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.” Upon adoption of ASU 2016-09, the Company made an accounting policy election to continue accounting for forfeitures by applying an estimated forfeiture rate.
The adoption of ASU 2016-09 did not have an impact on the stock compensation expense amount recognized during the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and accumulated deficit at March 31, 2018.
The Company grants restricted stock units that vest over a required service period and/or achievement of certain operating performance goals.
Restricted stock units granted with performance goals may also have a required service period following the achievement of all or a portion of the goals.
The following table reflects restricted stock units granted during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Time-Based Grants  



 Restricted stock units granted with a required service period typically have three year vesting schedules in which one-third of awards vest at the first anniversary of the grant date, one-third vest at the second anniversary of the grant date and one-third vest at the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to the award holders meeting service requirements.
Stock Grants  



 During the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company granted 34,926 and 42,560 units, respectively, to the members of the Company's Board of Directors, including 26,539 and 28,065 units, respectively, that were compensation-related.
Compensation-related units granted during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 are subject to a one-year vesting period starting from the grant date.
The units granted during the six months ended March 31, 2018 will vest on the date which is one day before the Company's 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
The units granted during the six months ended March 31, 2017 vested on January 30, 2018, which was one day before the Company's 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Certain members of the Board of Directors previously elected to defer receiving their annual awards of restricted shares of the Company stock and quarterly dividends until a future date.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company granted 7,130 and 13,065 units, respectively, related to such deferred annual restricted share awards, as well as 1,257 and 1,430 units, respectively, related to deferred quarterly dividends.
Annual restricted share awards granted during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 are subject to a one-year vesting period starting from the grant date.
The units will vest on the date which is one day before the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, but certain holders have elected to defer the receipt of the Company shares until they attain a certain age or cease to provide services to the Company in their capacity as Board members.
Such units vested upon their issuance, but the settlement was deferred by certain holders for the same conditions, as described above.
Performance-Based Grants  



 Performance-based restricted stock units are earned based on the achievement of performance criteria established by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The criteria for performance-based awards are weighted and have threshold, target and maximum performance goals.
Performance below the minimum threshold for each financial metric results in award forfeitures.
Performance goals will be measured over a three year period at the end of fiscal year 2020 to determine the number of units earned by recipients who continue to meet a service requirement.
Units held by recipients who fail to meet the continued service requirement are forfeited.
Earned units for recipients who continue to meet the service requirements vest on the date the Company’s Board of Directors determines the number of units earned, which will be approximately the third anniversary of the grant date.
Performance-based awards granted in fiscal year 2016 also include provisions that allow participants to earn threshold, target and maximum awards ranging from 0% of the award for performance below the minimum threshold, 100% of the award for performance at target, and up to a maximum of 200% of the award if the Company achieves the maximum performance goals.
Restricted Stock Unit Activity  



 The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity for the six months ended March 31, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $25.41 and $20.76, respectively.
The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $33.61 and $14.32, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $0.1 million and $0.6 million, respectively.
The fair value of restricted stock units vested during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $19.1 million and $11.9 million, respectively.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company remitted $6.3 million and $3.8 million, respectively, for withholding taxes on vested restricted stock units, of which $0.1 million was paid by the Company during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
There were no taxes on vested restricted stock units paid by the Company during the six months ended March 31, 2018.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company received $6.3 million and $3.7 million, respectively, in cash proceeds from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.
As of March 31, 2018, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $30.1 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 1.8 years.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan  



 The Company maintains an Employee Stock Purchase Plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower.
There were 66,785 and 90,681 shares, respectively, purchased by employees under the employee stock purchase plan during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
21  



 Table of Contents  



 12.
Earnings per Share  



 The calculations of basic and diluted net income per share and basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding are as follows for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands, except per share data):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 During the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, antidilutive restricted stock units of 190,517 and 190,266, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
Restricted stock units of 144,808 and 56,230, respectively, during the three and six months ended March 31, 2017 were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share based on the treasury stock method.
13.
Restructuring Charges  



 The restructuring charges recorded by the Company during the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 were nominal.
During the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $0.9 million related to severance.
During the six months ended March 31, 2017, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $1.8 million related to severance.
Such charges were comprised of: (i) $1.4 million of costs attributable to the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment as described above, (ii) $0.2 million of costs attributable to the Brooks Life Sciences segment as described above, and (iii) $0.2 million of costs related to the company-wide restructuring action.
The following is a summary of activity related to the Company’s restructuring charges for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 22  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 As of March 31, 2018, accrued restructuring costs of $0.4 million were primarily attributable to the restructuring actions within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
Accrued restructuring costs are expected to be paid within the next twelve months.
14.
The Company’s Chief Executive Officer is the Company’s chief operating decision maker.
The Company reports its financial results for two operating and reportable segments which consist of Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment and Brooks Life Sciences segment.
23  



 Table of Contents  



 The following is the summary of the financial information for the Company’s operating and reportable segments for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and balances as of  March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The following is a reconciliation of the Company’s operating and reportable segments’ operating income and segment assets to the corresponding amounts presented in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of 



 24  



 Table of Contents  



Operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017 (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 15.
The Company had one customer that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, at 12% and 11%, respectively, during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no customers that accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s total receivables.
For purposes of determining the percentage of revenue generated from any of the Company’s original equipment manufacturer (the "OEM") customers, the Company does not include revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers who in turn sell to the OEMs.
If the Company included revenue from products sold to contract manufacturer customers supporting the Company’s OEM customers, the percentage of the Company’s total revenue derived from certain OEM customers would be higher.
16.
Commitments and Contingencies  



 Letters of Credit  



 At March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had approximately $2.6 million and $3.5 million, respectively, of letters of credit outstanding related primarily to customer advances and other performance obligations.
These arrangements guarantee the refund of advance payments received from our customers in the event that the product is not delivered or warranty obligations are not fulfilled in accordance with the contract terms.
These obligations could be called by the beneficiaries at any time before the expiration date of the particular letter of credit if the Company fails to meet certain contractual requirements.
None of these obligations were called during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, and the Company currently does not anticipate any of these obligations to be called in the near future.
Purchase Commitments  



 The Company has non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $163.7 million and $122.0 million, respectively, at March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017.
17.
Subsequent Events  



 Acquisitions  



 On April 6, 2018, the Company acquired approximately 93% of the outstanding capital stock of Tec-Sem Group AG (“Tec-Sem”), a Switzerland-based manufacturer of semiconductor fab automation equipment with a focus on reticle management.
The total cash payment made by the Company was $11.3 million, net of cash acquired, and is subject to working capital adjustments.
The remaining 7% non-controlling interest will be acquired by the Company in due course upon completion of subsequent procedural steps.
The acquisition is expected to expand the Company’s existing contamination control solutions business within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
The Company will report the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date.
On April 18, 2018, the Company acquired BioSpeciMan Corporation, a Canadian provider of storage services for biological sample materials.
The total cash payment made by the Company was $4.8 million, net of cash acquired and is subject to working capital adjustments.
The acquisition is expected to expand customer relationships and geographic reach within the Company’s growing sample management storage services business.
Dividend  



 On April 30, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.10 per share payable on June 22, 2018 to common stockholders of record as of June 1, 2018.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on the Company’s actual cash flows from operations, its financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
26  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 1.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10‑K.
