PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



Refer to Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding certain legal proceedings, the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
Item 1A.
On July 11, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Broadcom Inc. (“Broadcom”) under which Broadcom agreed to acquire us subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein.
Our pending acquisition by Broadcom may have an adverse effect on our revenue in the near term if our customers delay, defer, or cancel purchases pending completion of the transaction.
In addition, the announcement and pendency of the transaction may cause reluctance by customers to begin or continue to do business with us due to potential uncertainty about the direction of our products and solutions following consummation of the transaction.
We are subject to additional risks in connection with the announcement and pendency of the proposed transaction, including:



•Difficulties maintaining existing and/or establishing business relationships, including relationships with significant customers, suppliers, channel partners, and other business partners;



•Disruption to our business, including increased costs and diversion of management time and resources that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us;



•The restrictions imposed on our business and operations pursuant to certain covenants set forth in the Merger Agreement, which may prevent us from pursuing certain opportunities, responding to competitive pressures and industry developments, or taking certain actions without Broadcom’s approval;



•Adverse effects on our ability to attract, recruit, retain and motivate current and prospective employees who may be uncertain about their future roles following completion of the proposed transaction, and the possibility that our employees could lose productivity as a result of uncertainty regarding their employment following the proposed transaction;



•The pendency and outcome of the legal proceedings that have been or may be instituted against us, our directors, executive officers and others relating to the proposed transaction; and



•The diversion of our employees’ attention due to activities related to the proposed transaction.
Consummation of the Broadcom transaction remains subject to certain customary closing conditions, including, without limitation, adoption of the Merger Agreement by the Company’s stockholders and the absence of legal impediments and regulatory clearances in the United States, the European Union and Japan.
There can be no assurance that these conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all.
The Merger Agreement with Broadcom limits our ability to pursue alternative transactions, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction.
These or other provisions may discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of us from considering or proposing an acquisition or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire us than it might otherwise have proposed to pay.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



The following table sets forth, for the months indicated, our purchases of common stock in the first quarter of fiscal 2019:



ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)In November 2015, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program that authorized us to acquire up to $750 million of our common stock.
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement with Broadcom, we may not continue to repurchase shares without Broadcom’s consent.
Item 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.
Item 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.
Item 5.
OTHER INFORMATION



None.
44

Item 6.
EXHIBITS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



45
