References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
References to our Form 10-K made throughout this document refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 as filed with the SEC on September 20, 2017.
Overview 



On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima.
Prior to this transaction, we sold streaming, video processing and storage products and services to media service providers to support consumer-facing video applications including live broadcast video, video-on-demand and time-shifted television services such as cloud-based digital video recording.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business to the RT Purchaser.
The Real-Time business provided real-time Linux operating system variants, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
Prior to the sale, we sold our Real-Time business products to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
Having divested both our Real-Time and Content Delivery businesses, we are now in the process of evaluating opportunities intended to maximize the value of our remaining assets, which consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, escrow funds receivable, and approximately $ 56 million in U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards.
This process includes the evaluation of opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses intended to provide appreciation in value, thereby enhancing the Company’s liquidity, and potentially allowing us greater ability to utilize existing net operating loss carryforwards.
If the Investment Committee is unable to identify a suitable acquisition target that is appropriately valued, we may consider alternatives for returning capital to stockholders while we wind up our affairs.
Results of our Content Delivery and Real-Time businesses are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 4 to the condensed consolidated financial statements).
Recent Events 



Pursuant to the Escrow Agreement we entered into with Vecima on December 15, 2017, we received $29.02 million on the December 31, 2017 closing date, based upon the agreed upon sale price, which included $1.47 million for previously estimated working capital expected to transfer to Vecima above an agreed upon working capital target.
Under the CDN APA, we may receive additional consideration, or be required to return a portion of the consideration received on the closing date based on a final determination of the business’ net working capital as of the closing date.
Pursuant to our Escrow Agreement with Vecima, $1.45 million of the purchase price (not included above) will be held by SunTrust Bank as security for our indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, which amount will be released to us on or before December 31, 2018 (less any portion used to make indemnification payments to Vecima).
26  



The closing of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima resulted in a “change in control” under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan.
As a result, we have recognized the acceleration of the vesting and the lapse of restrictions on all restricted stock granted under our Amended and Restated 2011 Stock Incentive Plan and payment of any associated accrued dividends in connection with the consummation of the sale of the Content Delivery business to Vecima.
On December 31, 2017 we entered into a Separation and Consulting Agreement and General Release of Claims with Derek Elder, whereby Mr. Elder’s role as president and chief executive officer of the Company terminated and he ceased to be a member of our Board of Directors and all committees thereof, effective on December 31, 2017.
Mr. Elder’s separation from the Company did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices.
In addition, as described more fully in Item 1, Section 12 herein, on December 31, 2017, an independent member of our Board of Directors, Robert Pons, tendered his resignation from the Board of Directors and all committees thereof.
Mr. Pons’ resignation from the Board of Directors did not involve any disagreement with the Board of Directors, the Company or its management on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices.
On January 2, 2018, we changed our Company name to “CCUR Holdings, Inc.” We currently trade on the Nasdaq stock market under the same “CCUR” symbol and have launched a new website located at www.ccurholdings.com.
We dispute the Nasdaq’s determination and have taken the necessary steps to appeal the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department’s determination to delist our securities by requesting a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Listing Panel”) and tendering the appropriate fee.
There can be no assurances that our appeal will be successful.
During the pendency of the Company’s appeal of the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Department’s determination, the Board of Directors of the Company and the Investment Committee will continue to evaluate options to maximize the value of the Company’s assets, including opportunities to invest in or acquire one or more operating businesses that provide opportunities for appreciation in value.
A hearing before the Listing Panel of The Nasdaq Stock Market is scheduled for February 15, 2018 and we expect to receive a decision from the Listing Panel within or up to thirty (30) days of the hearing.
On February 8, 2018, the Board of Directors appointed Mr. David Nicol as a new board member and appointed Mr. Nicol as Audit Committee Chairman, and Audit Committee Financial Expert, replacing Wayne Barr, Jr. in those positions, and as a member of the Compensation and Nominating committees.
Mr. Nicol is a seasoned Board Director and advisor for technology-based businesses who currently serves on three other boards, two privately held and one public, the latter for which he chairs both Audit and Compensation Committees.
Mr. Nicol is an active member of the National Association of Corporate Directors and Financial Executives International.
On February 13, 2018, Mr. Wayne Barr, most recently the Chairman of the Board, was appointed to a new position as Executive Chairman, President and CEO of the Company on an interim basis to fill the vacancy left after the departure of the Company’s former CEO and President on December 31, 2017.
In connection with Mr. Barr’s new interim role, he resigned from his memberships on the Audit, Compensation and Nominating committees.
Mr. Barr will continue to serve on the Investment Committee and in his capacity as Executive Chairman, Mr. Barr will continue to serve as and execute the duties of the Chairman of the Board.
In his capacity as CEO and President, Mr. Barr shall perform, on a consultant basis, the senior executive officer and managerial job duties customary to such position.
Results of Operations for the Three months ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Three months ended December 31, 2016 



General and Administrative.
General and administrative expenses were $3.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $2.4 million, or 160.7%, from $1.5 million for the prior year period.
This increase was primarily due to (1) $1.8 million in share-based compensation expenses resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted share awards due to the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (2) $0.9 million in severance related to our former CEO and another employee, and (3) $0.5 million in bonuses related to the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business.
Following the close of the Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017, which generated the aforementioned one-time transaction costs, we anticipate our operating expenses to be significantly lower in remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018.
Other Income, net.
Other income in both periods is comprised primarily of interest income and realized gains on short-term investments.
Other income, net increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and short-term investments as a result of the sale of our Real-Time business in May 2017.
We recorded a consolidated income tax benefit of $0.9 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017 compared to a less than $0.1 million consolidated income tax expense in the prior year period.
The domestic income tax benefit in the current period was primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was enacted on December 22, 2017, specifically regarding refundability of previously paid alternative minimum tax incurred in the current and prior year periods.
Loss from Continuing Operations.
Our loss from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $2.8 million, or $0.30 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2016 of $1.5 million, or $0.16 loss per basic and diluted share.
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
We sold our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 and our Real-Time business in May 2017.
As a result, the $22.7 million of income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes includes a $22.6 gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
We recorded $0.7 million of income tax expense within our Discontinued Operations during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Results of Operations for the Six months ended December 31, 2017 Compared to the Six months ended December 31, 2016 



General and Administrative.
General and administrative expenses were $5.3 million for the six months ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $2.4 million, or 79.6%, from $3.0 million for the prior year period.
This increase was primarily due to (1) $1.8 million in share-based compensation expenses resulting from the acceleration of vesting of restricted share awards due to the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 (2) $0.9 million in severance related to our former CEO and another employee, and (3) $0.5 million in bonuses related to the completion of the sale of our Content Delivery business.
Following the close of the Content Delivery business during the six months ended December 31, 2017, which generated the aforementioned one-time transaction costs, we anticipate our operating expenses to be significantly lower in remaining quarters of our fiscal year 2018.
Other Income, net.
Other income in both periods is comprised primarily of interest income and realized gains on short-term investments.
Other income, net increased in the current period relative to the prior period due to our increase in cash and short-term investments as a result of the sale of our Real-Time business in May 2017.
(Benefit) Provision for Income Taxes.
We recorded a consolidated income tax benefit of $0.9 million for the six months ended December 31, 2017 compared to a less than $0.1 million consolidated income tax expense in the prior year period.
The domestic income tax benefit in the current period was primarily due to the favorable impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was enacted on December 22, 2017, specifically regarding refundability of previously paid alternative minimum tax incurred in the current and prior year periods.
Loss from Continuing Operations.
Our loss from continuing operations for the six months ended December 31, 2017 was $4.2 million, or $0.45 loss per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss for the six months ended December 31, 2016 of $3.0 million, or $0.32 loss per basic and diluted share.
Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
We sold our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017 and our Real-Time business in May 2017.
As a result, the $23.0 million of income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes includes a $22.6 gain on the sale of our Content Delivery business during the three months ended December 31, 2017.
28  



We recorded $0.6 million of income tax expense within our Discontinued Operations during the six months ended December 31, 2017.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



As a result of the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017, our future liquidity will be affected by, among other things: 



 ·our future access to capital; 



 ·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives; 



 ·the number of countries in which we operate, which may require maintenance of minimum cash levels in each country and, in certain cases, may restrict the repatriation of cash, by requiring us to maintain levels of capital; 



 ·the use of cash to dividends; 



 ·maintaining our listing on the Nasdaq stock market; and 



 ·potential liquidation of the company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.
Uses and Sources of Cash 



We used $3.6 million and generated $1.6 million of cash from operating activities during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Operating cash flows during the six months ending December 31, 2017 were primarily attributable the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous quarter’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation.
Operating cash flows during the six months ended December 31, 2016 were primarily attributable to the collection of accounts receivable for sales shipped late in the prior year, offset by the current period net loss and the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous year’s inventory purchase and other obligations.
We invested $0.3 million and $0.5 million in property and equipment during the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Capital additions during each of these periods were primarily related to: (1) development and test equipment for our development groups and (2) demonstration systems used by our sales and marketing group.
We have no plans for material capital expenditures for the remaining periods of our 2018 fiscal year.
We had maturities of $8.9 million of previously invested short-term investments and reinvested $10.0 million in short-term investments during the six months ended December 31, 2017.
We moved cash to these short-term investments in the third quarter of fiscal year 2017 so that we may earn a higher return than we had previously earned with our cash and cash equivalent balances.
Our short-term investments consist of highly liquid commercial paper and U.S. Treasury bills and have original maturities of more than 3 months but no more than 12 months.
We paid two quarterly cash dividends, each for $0.12 per share, during each of the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
During both the six months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, we also paid less than $0.1 million of dividends that had been held as dividends payable from previous declarations to restricted stockholders for whom restrictions lapsed during each period.
In January 2018, as a result of the acceleration of vesting of substantially all of our previously unvested restricted stock triggered by the sale of our Content Delivery business, we paid $346 of previously accrued dividends in January 2018.
In the six months ended December 31, 2017, the additional amount paid includes payments of dividends to three of our independent directors who resigned during the period.
On October 27, 2017, we announced the Board of Directors’ decision to suspend future dividends after the payment of the December 2017 quarterly dividend while the Board of Directors and the Investment Committee consider potential acquisition targets and alternative uses of our remaining assets.
We believe that a portion of our dividends may be treated as a return of capital to stockholders, rather than dividend income, as we believe dividend payments may exceed our cumulative earnings and profits.
29  



Although we do not have any outstanding debt or borrowing facilities in place at December 31, 2017, we periodically review the need for credit arrangements.
Based upon our existing cash balances, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the near term, we believe that existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital, capital expenditure requirements and any dividend payments for at least the next twelve months.
We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $65.0 million and $65.5 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at December 31, 2017, compared to working capital of $45.3 million and $42.3 million cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at June 30, 2017.
At December 31, 2017, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures.
As of December 31, 2017, approximately $0.1 million, or less than 1% of our cash is in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months.
Based upon our existing cash balances and short-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2017.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
Most of our critical accounting policies and estimates have been impacted by the sale of our Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 and the section titled “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposal to Approve the Asset Sale” in our Definitive Proxy Statement filed on November 6, 2017.
31  



 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



None.
