References herein to “CCUR Holdings,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to CCUR Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
References herein to the “current year period” and the “prior year period” refer to the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Overview 



In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined to Real-Time, Inc. pursuant to an Asset and Share Purchase Agreement.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement (the “CDN APA”), dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all assets and liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reflected as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements).
A special committee of the Board, the Investment Committee, was established upon the signing of the CDN APA for the purpose of considering alternative means to deploy the proceeds of the sale of the Content Delivery business and other corporate assets to maximize long-term value for our stockholders.
Other than the restrictions set forth in the relevant non-competition and non-solicitation agreement executed by the Company in connection with the disposition of our prior operations, there are no restrictions on the transactions that we can pursue, including with respect to industry sector and geographic location.
We believe that these activities will enable us to identify, acquire and grow businesses and assets that will maximize value for all of our stockholders.
We have received referrals with respect to and have performed due diligence assessments on multiple target companies and strategic opportunities in a variety of industries.
We work with several financial advisors and consultants on a non-exclusive basis and have been able to filter leads and referrals through diverse channels enabling us to review a wide range of opportunities in a variety of industries.
17  



Our acquisition process is focused on identifying fairly- to under-valued businesses that have growth potential.
Recent Events 



On October 2, 2018, we announced that the Company entered into a non-binding letter of intent (the “LOI”) to acquire an 80% membership interest in LuxeMark Capital, LLC (“LuxeMark”), a privately held firm focused on the rapidly growing merchant cash advance sector of the finance industry that provides financing to small and medium-sized businesses.
LuxeMark provides syndication capital or leverage to select funding companies within the sector and hopes to expand its business-to-business strategy by increasing the number of qualified funders to which it provides capital nationwide.
Under the terms of the LOI, the Company will acquire the membership interest for a combination of up to $6 million in cash, and options and stock appreciation rights each payable over four years and subject to the achievement of prescribed financial performance milestones by LuxeMark.
Additionally, the Company will commit up to $10 million of syndication capital under a separate agreement with LuxeMark, which amount shall be placed by LuxeMark with its qualified funders.
The acquisition and deployment of syndication capital are subject to a number of conditions including the negotiation of definitive documentation and completion of CCUR’s due diligence investigation to CCUR’s satisfaction during a 120-day exclusivity period.
We expect that the proposed transaction with LuxeMark will provide the Company with two revenue streams generated through (i) the Company’s 80% membership interest and thereby its pro-rated portion of the fee income earned by LuxeMark on its syndicators’ invested capital and (ii) returns received on the $10 million the Company makes available as a LuxeMark syndicator.
In addition to its pursuit of acquisition opportunities the Investment Committee is tasked with creating operating activities and businesses that will enhance stockholder value.
To that end, in fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other activities, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations.
At this time the Company does not expect a significant increase in expenses for its real estate operations as its management team has prior experience in this sector and believes it can manage the business without adding additional staffing resources.
As a part of its real estate operations, the Company plans to continue to assess opportunities to create value through real property ownership, financing and/or development, among other strategies.
Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 



Interest Income on Mortgage Loans.
We created Recur Holdings LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Through Recur Holdings LLC we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we earned $0.1 million of interest income on five mortgage loans with an aggregate carrying value of $4.8 million and a weighted average annualized yield of 10.8%.
18  



General and Administrative.
General and administrative expenses were $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018, a $ 0.6 million, or 29.8%, decrease from the prior year period.
This decrease was primarily due to: 



 ·a $0.3 million decrease in legal and accounting fees.
Prior period fees were higher as a result of incremental services related to evaluation of strategic options and efforts to close the sale of the Content Delivery business; 



 ·a $0.2 million decrease in Board fees.
In the first quarter of our prior fiscal year we incurred fees attributable to the resignation of three of our independent directors that did not recur in the current year period.
Additionally, in the second quarter of the prior fiscal year we reduced recurring Board fees for our remaining Board members; and 



 ·a $0.1 million decrease in stock-based compensation resulting from the vesting of substantially all of our outstanding equity awards upon the change in control resulting from the sale the Content Delivery business in the prior year, coupled with minimal equity grants leading up to and following the completion of this business sale, which resulted in lower ongoing stock-based compensation expense in the current year period.
At this time, we do not expect a significant increase in expenses for our real estate operations as our management team has prior experience in this sector and believes it can manage the business without adding significant staffing resources.
Other Interest Income.
Other interest income specifically includes interest earned on cash and money market balances, investments in debt securities, and income generated by cash advances.
Other interest income increased by $0.8 million, or 771%, in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017.
The components of our interest income for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest income increased in the current year period relative to the prior year period due to: 



 ·the increase in cash resulting from the sale of our Content Delivery business in December 2017; 



 ·increasing interest rates on money market balances; and 



 ·investment in higher yielding debt securities and cash advances in the current year period.
Dividend income.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018 the Company began investing a portion of its business sale proceeds in equity securities, some of which declared and paid dividends during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Net Realized and Unrealized Investment Loss.
In the latter half of our fiscal year 2018, we began investing a portion of our business sale proceeds in equity securities.
Upon our adoption of ASU No.
2016-01 on July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
This realized loss from the equity investment fair value adjustment was partially offset by a $201 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities during the period, resulting in the net realized and unrealized loss on investments of $256 reported within our consolidated statement of operations.
19  



Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes.
We sold the Content Delivery business on December 31, 2017.
Our income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 includes the financial results of the Content Delivery business for that period, which is further described in Note 3, “Discontinued Operations,” to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our future liquidity will be affected by, among other things: 



 ·our future access to capital; 



 ·our exploration and evaluation of strategic alternatives and development of new operating assets; 



 ·the number of countries in which we operate, which may require maintenance of minimum cash levels in each country and, in certain cases, may restrict the repatriation of cash, by requiring us to maintain levels of capital; 



 ·our ongoing operating expenses; and 



 ·potential liquidation of the Company pursuant to an organized plan of liquidation.
Uses and Sources of Cash 



Cash Flows from Operating Activities 



We used $0.1 million and $3.5 million of cash for operating activities during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Operating cash usage during the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to operating costs during the period exceeding cash generating income, as approximately $0.5 million of our income for the period was from non-cash accretion and payment-in-kind interest.
Operating cash flows during the three months ending September 30, 2017 were primarily attributable to the timing of payments made against our accounts payable to settle the previous quarter’s transaction costs related to the sale of our Real-Time business, inventory purchases and accrued compensation.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities 



During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we originated $1.8 million of short-term mortgage loans through our new real estate operating subsidiary, Recur Holdings LLC, of which $1.4 million was on deposit with an escrow agent at the end of the prior fiscal year.
Additionally, we provided a $2.0 million cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee.
We invested $0.2 million in property and equipment during the three months ended September 30, 2017.
These capital additions were primarily related to: (i) development and test equipment for the Content Delivery business development groups and (ii) demonstration systems used by our sales and marketing group.
We also generated $4.8 million of cash from maturities of commercial paper investments and reinvested $4.2 million in additional commercial paper during the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities 



On March 5, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to one million shares of the Company’s common stock.
Purchases are made through private transactions or open market purchases, which may be made pursuant to trading plans subject to the restrictions and protections of Rule 10b5-1 and/or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We repurchased 23,008 shares of the Company’s common stock totaling $0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018.
All repurchased stock was retired, and 236,532 shares may still be purchased under the announced plan as of September 30, 2018.
20  



Liquidity 



We had working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of $55.8 million at September 30, 2018, compared to working capital of $55.3 million at June 30, 2018.
At September 30, 2018, we had no material commitments for capital expenditures.
As of September 30, 2018, less than 0.1% of our cash was in foreign accounts and there is no expectation that any foreign cash would need to be transferred from these foreign accounts to cover U.S. operations in the next 12 months.
Based upon our existing cash balances, equity securities and available-for-sale-term investments, historical cash usage, and anticipated operating cash flow in the current fiscal year, we believe that existing U.S. cash balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2018.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 



The SEC defines “critical accounting estimates” as those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  



Certain statements made or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 and in “Item 1A.
Item 2.
Purchases are made through private transactions or open market purchases, which may be made pursuant to trading plans subject to the restrictions and protections of Rule 10b5-1 and/or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The following table sets forth information about the shares of the Company’s common stock we repurchased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, as well as remaining shares available for repurchase under the Board’s authorization: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)On March 5, 2018, the Company announced its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to one million shares of the Company’s common stock.
Repurchases may be made at the discretion of management through open market or privately negotiated transactions or any combination of the same.
Open market purchases are made pursuant to trading plans subject to the restrictions and protections of Rule 10b5-1 and/or Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Act.
The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
23  



 Item 6.Exhibits  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 24  



 4.2   Form of Series B Participating Preferred Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 8-A (File No.
001-37706)).
31.1*   Certification of Principal Executive Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2*   Certification of Principal Financial Officer, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1**   Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.2**   Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* Filed herewith 



** Furnished herewith.
25  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 26
