Item 1.
Financial Statements 



CCUR Holdings, Inc.  



Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
2  



CCUR Holdings, Inc. 



Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
3  



ccur holdings, inc. 



Consolidated STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME (Unaudited) 



(Amounts in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
4  



ccur holdings, inc. 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) 



(Amounts in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
Through Recur Holdings LLC, we conduct, hold and manage our existing and future real estate operations.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) have been omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
Certain prior period income amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
The results of operations for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
Smaller Reporting Company 



We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities 



We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
We adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2016-01, Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“ASU 2016-01”), as amended by ASU No.
2018-03, Financial Instruments-Overall: Technical Corrections and Improvements, on July 1, 2018 (see Note 2).
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01 on July 1, 2018, we are no longer required to determine the classification of our equity securities and there will no longer be a requirement to assess equity securities for impairment since such securities will be measured at fair value through net income.
Premiums and discounts on fixed maturity securities are amortized using the effective interest method.
Dividends on equity securities are recognized when declared.
When the Company sells a security, the difference between the sale proceeds and amortized cost (determined based on specific identification) is reported as a realized investment gain or loss.
When a decline in the value of a specific investment is considered to be other-than-temporary at the balance sheet date, a provision for impairment is charged to earnings (included in realized gains (losses) on investments) and the cost basis of that investment is reduced.
The credit-related portion of an “other-than-temporary” impairment is measured by comparing a security’s amortized cost to the present value of its current expected cash flows discounted at its effective yield prior to the impairment charge.
If the Company intends to sell an impaired security, or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery, an impairment charge to earnings is recorded to reduce the amortized cost of that security to fair value.
To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan.
7  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



Commercial and Mortgage Loans and Loan Losses 



We have potential exposure to transaction losses as a result of uncollectibility of commercial mortgage and other loans.
We reflect additions to the reserve in current operating results, while we make charges to the reserve when we incur losses.
We reflect recoveries in the reserve for transaction losses as collected.
We have the intent and ability to hold our commercial loans to maturity and have not recorded provisions for loan losses as of December 31, 2018.
We have the intent and ability to hold these loans to maturity or payoff and as such, have classified these loans as held-for-investment.
These loans are reported on the balance sheet at the outstanding principal balance adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and deferred fees or costs.
As of December 31, 2018, we have not recorded any charge-offs, and believe that an allowance for loan losses is not required.
Advances Receivable 



Merchant Cash Advances, net 



In December 2018, we began purchasing participation interests in Merchant Cash Advances (“MCAs”) from a third party whose principal activity is originating MCAs to small businesses.
MCAs are contracts formed through a future receivables or receipts purchase and sale agreement, which stipulates the purchase price, or the amount advanced, and the specified amount, or the advance amount plus the factored receivable balance the Company will be repaid, on the face of the contract.
Generally, a specified amount will be withdrawn from the merchant’s bank account via daily or weekly ACH in order to pay down the merchant’s advance.
These are not consumer loan contracts, nor are they installment loan contracts to businesses for business use only.
In addition, there is no monthly minimum payment, nor is there a specific repayment schedule.
Other Advances Receivable 



During the six months ended December 31, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of merchant cash advance income within the statement of operations.
Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary.
As of December 31, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired.
Allowance for MCA credit losses 



The allowance for credit losses for MCAs is established at the time of funding through a provision for losses charged to our statement of operations based on historical performance experienced by an industry peer group.
Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes that the future collection in full of purchased receivables is unlikely.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, and ultimate losses may vary from the current estimates.
Based on industry peer group historical performance, we recorded a $495 loss reserve during the current period.
8  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



Revenue Recognition 



We generate revenue primarily from interest earned on commercial mortgage and other loans that yield interest, and also from fees earned on MCAs.
Loan origination fees are deferred and recognized over the expected term of the loan.
The revenue generated from MCAs is primarily factor income.
The factor income represents the amount of the purchased receivables in excess of the funded contract amount advanced to the merchant in accordance with the merchant agreement net of amounts related to participations.
Factor income on merchant advance receivables is earned and recognized ratably as receivables are collected, at factor rates stipulated in the client funding agreement from the date of purchase through the date the receivables are collected or ceases accruing factor revenue when the receivable is identified as uncollectible.
Basic and Diluted (Loss) Earnings per Share 



Basic (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing (loss) income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Diluted (loss) earnings per share is computed by dividing (loss) income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 10,937 and 315,771 for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and weighted average common share equivalents of 13,420 and 322,570 for the six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair Value Measurements 



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures requires certain disclosures around fair value and establishes a fair value hierarchy for valuation inputs.
The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three levels based on the extent to which inputs used in measuring fair value are observable in the market.
Each fair value measurement is reported in one of the three levels which are determined by the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
These levels are: 



 ·Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 



 ·Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and 



 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
9  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



Our investment portfolio consists of money market funds, repurchase agreements (“repos”), domestic and international commercial paper, equity securities and corporate debt.
All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.
All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value.
All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments.
Interest on securities is recorded in interest income.
Dividends paid by securities are recorded in dividend income.
Any realized gains or losses are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
We provide fair value measurement disclosures of our securities in accordance with one of the three levels of fair value measurement.
We have no financial assets that are measured on a recurring basis that fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Our financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018 are as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The carrying amounts of certain financial instruments, including cash equivalents and MCAs, approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature.
2.Recent Accounting Guidance  



Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance 



In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued ASU No.
2016-01, Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, as amended by ASU No.
2018-03, Financial Instruments-Overall: Technical Corrections and Improvements, issued in February 2018 on the recognition and measurement of financial instruments.
The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The new guidance changes the current accounting guidance related to (i) the classification and measurement of certain equity investments, (ii) the presentation of changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option that are due to instrument-specific credit risk, and (iii) certain disclosures associated with the fair value of financial instruments.
Additionally, there is no longer a requirement to assess equity securities for impairment since such securities are now measured at fair value through net income.
We utilized a modified retrospective approach to adopt the new guidance effective July 1, 2018.
The impact related to the change in accounting for equity securities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 was $318 of net unrealized investment gains, net of income tax, reclassified from AOCI to retained earnings.
10  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted 



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement” (“ASU 2018-13”).
ASU No.
2018-13 is part of the disclosure framework project and eliminates certain disclosure requirements for fair value measurements, requires entities to disclose new information, and modifies existing disclosure requirements.
The new guidance is effective after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
3.Discontinued Operations  



Content Delivery Business 



On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
The sale included our Content Delivery business assets and related liabilities in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany, as well as the sale of all equity in our Japanese subsidiary.
Gross proceeds of $29,812 from the sale were paid to us as follows: (1) $28,362 net cash payment during our fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 (including an $812 adjustment for surplus net working capital transferred to Vecima as defined in the CDN APA) and (2) $1,450 placed in escrow as security for the Company’s indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, which amount was to be released to the Company on or around December 31, 2018 (less any portion used to make indemnification payments to Vecima).
In January 2019 we received the full $1,450 from escrow.
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
11  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



For the three months and six months ended December 31, 2017, income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, related to the Content Delivery business was comprised of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cash flow information relating to the Content Delivery business for the six months ended December 31, 2017 was as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 12  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 4.Investments  



Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Investments 



The following tables provide information relating to investments in fixed maturity and equity securities: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Fixed maturity debt securities are classified as “available for sale,” and as such, adjustments to fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet as unrealized gains and losses.
Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of December 31, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below.
Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
13  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 5.Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans Receivable  



We have outstanding $6,193 of mortgage loans secured by real property in certain markets throughout the United States at December 31, 2018.
Mortgage loan activity for the six months ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We also had a $1,400 deposit held by an escrow agent as of June 30, 2018 for a mortgage loan that was consummated subsequent to our June 30, 2018 fiscal year end.
Additionally, during the second quarter of our fiscal year 2019, we originated a commercial line of credit (“credit facility”) to support the working capital needs of a business (the “borrower”) with eligible borrowings of up to $3,000, based upon the borrower’s eligible accounts receivable.
All outstanding credit facility balances are due upon collection of the borrower’s accounts receivable and the credit facility expires on October 29, 2020.
The credit facility yields prime plus 5% on the outstanding balance of the credit facility, and a 1.2% fee is charged on the unused portion of the credit facility.
The borrower has $721 outstanding as of December 31, 2018 and the credit facility is secured by substantially all of the assets of the borrower.
Credit facility activity for the period is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 14  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 6.Advances Receivable, net  



In December 2018, we entered into an arrangement with an MCA originator to participate in its MCA activity.
We made an initial advance of $5,000 to the originator, which in turn advanced these funds to merchants as part of a syndication.
As receipts have been paid by the merchants, we have used the collected funds to fund additional MCAs with this originator.
In conjunction with TCJA, on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
SAB 118 allows for recording certain effects of the TCJA as “provisional” during a one-year measurement period, which for the Company ended in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
At this time, we do not believe there will be any material changes to the amounts previously provided for the impact of the TCJA.
We concluded our analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
We currently have an immaterial amount of cash available for repatriation of less than $35.
Net Operating Losses 



As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037.
We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these net operating losses.
The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2018; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382.
If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.
We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240.
The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037.
In determining whether or not a valuation allowance for tax assets is needed, we evaluate all available evidence, both positive and negative, including: trends in operating income or losses; currently available information about future years; future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences; future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; taxable income in prior carryback years if carryback is permitted under the tax law; and tax planning strategies that would accelerate taxable amounts to utilize expiring carryforwards, change the character of taxable and deductible amounts from ordinary income or loss to capital gain or loss, or switch from tax-exempt to taxable investments.
We reevaluate our conclusions quarterly regarding the valuation allowance and will make appropriate adjustments as necessary in the period in which significant changes occur.
Research and Development Tax Credits 



During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016.
For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2018 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
16  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



During the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018 we received $392 and $573, respectively, of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits.
8.Share-Based Compensation  



As of December 31, 2018, we had share-based compensation plans which are described in Note 9, “Share-Based Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
We recognize stock compensation expense over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period.
We recorded the following stock-based compensation expense: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of December 31, 2018, we had 15,000 stock options outstanding and 40,000 restricted shares outstanding.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company did not grant any equity compensation and there was no vesting or forfeiture of stock options.
A summary of our restricted stock activity for the six months ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 17  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 9.Pensions  



Defined Benefit Plans 



The following table provides the components of net periodic pension cost of our German defined benefit pension plans recognized in earnings for the three months and six months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 10.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses  



Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 11.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss  



The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss by component, net of taxes, for the six months ended December 31, 2018: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 12.Commitments and Contingencies  



Severance Arrangements 



Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with the chief financial officer and legal counsel, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time.
In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance.
Additionally, if terminated, our chief financial officer will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination.
At December 31, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $491.
18  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 13.Subsequent Events  



Release of Content Delivery Business Sale Proceeds from Escrow 



As a condition of the sale of our Content Delivery business to Vecima on December 31, 2017, $1,450 of the purchase price proceeds were placed in escrow as security for our indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, through December 31, 2018, with any portion used to reimburse Vecima for indemnification payments deducted from the escrow balance.
On January 2, 2019, the full $1,450 was released from escrow and transferred to our bank account.
19  



 Item 1.Legal Proceedings  



We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark, which acquisition currently is under a non-binding letter of intent.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark as discussed under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark.
There can be no assurance that LuxeMark will be willing to proceed with a transaction, that we will be able to negotiate and execute a satisfactory definitive purchase agreement with LuxeMark, that our due diligence will be satisfactory, or that the conditions to closing will be satisfied.
28  



We participate in the MCA industry, which presents a number of unique risks.
In December 2018, we acquired certain advance assets from an MCA originator and funder that is a leader in the MCA sector.
An MCA funder provides small businesses with cash advances in return for the purchase of an amount of the small business’s future receipts.
This type of transaction is not characterized or structured as a loan.
Small businesses typically seek these advances for working capital purposes to finance their purchase of inventory, equipment, or to otherwise address immediate business needs.
This business presents a number of unique risks, including the illiquidity of the cash advances; our critical reliance on certain individuals to operate the business; collection and cash advance repayment issues and challenges given that the MCAs are typically unsecured; and sensitivity to general economic conditions.
The illiquidity of our real estate portfolio may also result in us seeking financing in order to expand our operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan.
Real estate assets are relatively illiquid.
In addition, we may seek to restrict the percentage of our assets that are contained in illiquid real estate assets by seeking financing to continue expansion of our real estate operations while maintaining sufficient liquid assets to execute our business plan and invest in other value producing assets, including acquisition of additional businesses and assets.
Any financing that we obtain creates risks normally associated with financing, including the risk that our cash flow is insufficient to make timely payments of interest or principal.
Furthermore, engaging in unfamiliar transactions may require additional management time and attention relative to transactions with which we are more familiar.
Such acquisitions entail substantial risk.
We may also incur significant transaction and integration costs in connection with such acquisitions.
We may be limited in the types of acquisitions that we can pursue in order to preserve use of our NOLs.
We currently have NOLs valued at $56.1 million as of June 30, 2018.
Use of our NOLs can be impaired by certain shift in the ownership of our common stock and thus we are limited in our ability to use stock in an acquisition for NOL preservation purposes.
29
