 Item 1.Financial Statements  



CCUR Holdings, Inc.  



Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited) 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
2  



CCUR Holdings, Inc. 



Consolidated STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (Unaudited) 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
3  



ccur holdings, inc. 



Consolidated STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS(Unaudited) 



(Amounts in thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
4  



ccur holdings, inc. 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) 



(Amounts in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
CCUR Holdings was formerly known as Concurrent Computer Corporation and changed its name on January 2, 2018.
In May 2017, we sold our Real-Time business consisting of real-time Linux operating system versions, development and performance optimization tools, simulation software and other system software combined, in many cases, with computer platforms and services.
These real-time products were sold to a wide variety of companies seeking high performance, real-time computer solutions in the defense, aerospace, financial and automotive markets around the world.
On December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of our content delivery and storage business (the “Content Delivery business”) and other related assets to Vecima Networks, Inc. (“Vecima”) pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima.
Substantially all liabilities associated with the Content Delivery business were assigned to Vecima as part of the transaction.
The Content Delivery business provided advanced applications focused on storing, protecting, transforming, and delivering high value media.
The Content Delivery business consisted of (i) software, hardware and services for intelligently streaming video content to a variety of consumer devices and storing and managing content in the network and (ii) Aquari™ Storage, a unified scale-out storage solutions product that is ideally suited for a wide range of enterprise IT and video applications that require advanced performance, very large storage capacities, and a high degree of reliability.
Results of the Content Delivery business are retrospectively reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
Prior year information has been adjusted to conform to the current year presentation.
Unless otherwise stated, the information disclosed in the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations.
See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” for more information regarding results from discontinued operations.
In fiscal year 2018, following the sale of the Content Delivery business, we began developing a real estate operation initially through, among other things, making a number of commercial loans secured by real property.
Based on the success of these activities, including the yield characteristics of these loans, and management’s experience in the real estate area, we created Recur Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company wholly owned by the Company, during the first quarter of our fiscal year 2019.
The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted pursuant to applicable rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments of a normal recurring nature which were considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 filed with the SEC on September 7, 2018.
Smaller Reporting Company 



We meet the SEC’s definition of a “Smaller Reporting Company,” and therefore qualify for the SEC’s reduced disclosure requirements for smaller reporting companies.
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities 



We determine the appropriate classification of investments in debt securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each balance sheet date.
Debt securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity.
Held-to-maturity securities are recorded as either short term or long term in the consolidated balance sheet based on contractual maturity date and are stated at amortized cost.
Marketable securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as trading securities and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity or as trading are classified as available-for-sale, and are carried at fair market value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in the determination of comprehensive income and reported in stockholders’ equity.
We adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2016-01, Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“ASU 2016-01”), as amended by ASU 2018-03, Financial Instruments-Overall: Technical Corrections and Improvements, on July 1, 2018 (see Note 2).
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-01 on July 1, 2018, we are no longer required to determine the classification of our equity securities and there will no longer be a requirement to assess equity securities for impairment since such securities will be measured at fair value through net income.
Premiums and discounts on fixed maturity securities are amortized using the effective interest method.
Dividends on equity securities are recognized when declared.
When the Company sells a security, the difference between the sale proceeds and amortized cost (determined based on specific identification) is reported as a realized investment gain or loss.
When a decline in the value of a specific investment is considered to be other-than-temporary at the balance sheet date, a provision for impairment is charged to earnings (included in realized gains (losses) on investments) and the cost basis of that investment is reduced.
The credit-related portion of an “other-than-temporary” impairment is measured by comparing a security’s amortized cost to the present value of its current expected cash flows discounted at its effective yield prior to the impairment charge.
If the Company intends to sell an impaired security, or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery, an impairment charge to earnings is recorded to reduce the amortized cost of that security to fair value.
To the extent interest is PIK, it is payable through the increase of the principal amount of the loan by the amount of the interest due on the then-outstanding principal amount of the loan.
Advances Receivable 



During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we provided a $2,000 cash advance to an aviation business to fund the deposit required for the recipient’s aircraft purchases for up to six months, in exchange for paying us an upfront fee and a guaranty of the full repayment obligation from the principal of the third-party business.
The fee is earned over the six-month advance period and is reported as part of other interest income within the statement of operations.
Each quarter, we review the carrying value of this cash advance, and determine if an impairment reserve is necessary.
As of September 30, 2018, our advance receivable was not impaired.
7  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



Basic and Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Share 



Basic earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share is computed by dividing income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding including dilutive common share equivalents.
Under the treasury stock method, incremental shares representing the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued are included in the computation.
Due to the loss from continuing operations for both periods presented, weighted average common share equivalents of 31,665 and 218,719 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Fair Value Measurements 



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly fashion between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, we consider the most advantageous market in which it would transact and assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures requires certain disclosures around fair value and establishes a fair value hierarchy for valuation inputs.
The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three levels based on the extent to which inputs used in measuring fair value are observable in the market.
Each fair value measurement is reported in one of the three levels which are determined by the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
These levels are: 



 ·Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 



 ·Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable; and 



 ·Level 3 Assets or liabilities for which fair value is based on valuation models with significant unobservable pricing inputs and which include the use of management estimates.
Our investment portfolio consists of money market funds, domestic and international commercial paper, equity securities and corporate debt.
All highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.
All cash equivalents are carried at cost less any unamortized premium or discount, which approximates fair value.
All investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity investments.
Interest on securities is recorded in interest income.
We provide fair value measurement disclosures of our securities in accordance with one of the three levels of fair value measurement.
We have no financial assets that are measured on a recurring basis that fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Our financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 30, 2018 and June 30, 2018 are as follows: 



 8  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 2.Recent Accounting Guidance 



Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Guidance 



In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued ASU No.
2016-01, Financial Instruments-Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, as amended by ASU No.
2018-03, Financial Instruments-Overall: Technical Corrections and Improvements, issued in February 2018 on the recognition and measurement of financial instruments.
The new guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The new guidance changes the current accounting guidance related to (i) the classification and measurement of certain equity investments, (ii) the presentation of changes in the fair value of financial liabilities measured under the fair value option that are due to instrument-specific credit risk, and (iii) certain disclosures associated with the fair value of financial instruments.
Additionally, there is no longer a requirement to assess equity securities for impairment since such securities are now measured at fair value through net income.
We utilized a modified retrospective approach to adopt the new guidance effective July 1, 2018.
The impact related to the change in accounting for equity securities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 was $318 of net unrealized investment gains, net of income tax, reclassified from AOCI to retained earnings.
9  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted  



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement” (“ASU 2018-13”).
ASU No.
2018-13 is part of the disclosure framework project and eliminates certain disclosure requirements for fair value measurements, requires entities to disclose new information, and modifies existing disclosure requirements.
The new guidance is effective after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
3.Discontinued Operations 



Content Delivery Business 



As noted above, on December 31, 2017, we completed the sale of the Content Delivery business and other related assets to Vecima pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 13, 2017, between the Company and Vecima for a purchase price of $29,000 (subject to an adjustment for net working capital).
Gross proceeds of $29,812 from the sale were paid to us as follows: (1) $28,362 net cash payment during our fiscal year ended June 30, 2018 (including an $812 adjustment for surplus net working capital transferred to Vecima as defined in the CDN APA) and (2) $1,450 placed in escrow as security for the Company’s indemnification obligations to Vecima under the CDN APA, which amount will be released to the Company on or around December 31, 2018 (less any portion used to make indemnification payments to Vecima).
Results associated with the Content Delivery business are classified within income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
For the three months ended September 30, 2017, income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes related to the Content Delivery business was comprised of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 10  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



Cash flow information relating to the Content Delivery business for the three months ended September 30, 2017 is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 4.Investments 



Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities Investments 



The following tables provide information relating to investments in fixed maturity and equity securities: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Fixed maturity debt securities are classified as “available for sale”, and as such, adjustments to fair value are recorded within other comprehensive income on the consolidated balance sheet as unrealized gains and losses.
Upon our adoption of ASU 2016-01, effective July 1, 2018, changes in fair value of equity securities are recorded within the consolidated statement of operations as a net realized gain (loss) on investments.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded a $201 realized gain on the sale of debt and equity securities, as reported within our consolidated statement of operations.
11  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The amortized cost and fair value of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale as of September 30, 2018 are shown by contractual maturity in the table below.
Actual maturities can differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
In conjunction with TCJA, on December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
SAB 118 allows for recording certain effects of the TCJA as “provisional” during a one-year measurement period, which for the Company will end in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
At this time, we do not believe there will be any material changes to the amounts previously provided for the impact of the TCJA.
We expect to conclude our analysis during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
As a result of the TCJA, we are reassessing our intentions related to our indefinite reinvestment assertion as part of our provisional estimates.
We currently have an immaterial amount of cash available for repatriation of less than $35.
Net Operating Losses 



As of June 30, 2018, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) of approximately $56,113 for income tax purposes, of which none expire in fiscal year 2019, and the remainder expire at various dates through fiscal year 2037.
We recently completed an evaluation of the potential effect of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”) on our ability to utilize these net operating losses.
The study concluded that we have not had an ownership change for the period from July 22, 1993 to June 30, 2018; therefore, the NOLs will not be subject to limitation under Section 382.
If we experience an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the IRC, our ability to use these NOLs will be substantially limited, which could therefore significantly impair the value of that asset.
We have taken steps to protect the value of our NOLs with a “Tax Asset Preservation Plan” which is described more fully in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, we had state NOLs of $33,240.
The state NOLs expire according to the rules of each state and expiration will occur between fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2037.
Therefore, we have recognized a full valuation allowance on the Company’s deferred tax inventory.
We reevaluate our conclusions quarterly regarding the valuation allowance and will make appropriate adjustments as necessary in the period in which significant changes occur.
13  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



Research and Development Tax Credits 



During the year ended June 30, 2017, we applied for both a U.S. federal and state of Georgia research and development tax credit in the amounts of $719 and $675, respectively, for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2016.
For U.S. federal tax purposes, the credit cannot be utilized immediately but will carryforward for a period of 20 years.
For the state of Georgia tax credit, we have recorded the credit within both other current assets and other long-term assets with an offset in both accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets as of September 30 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we received $173 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits.
Subsequent to the September 30, 2018 and prior to the filing date of this Form 10Q, we received an additional $376 of proceeds from prior utilization of our State tax credits.
6.Share-Based Compensation 



As of September 30, 2018, we had share-based compensation plans which are described in Note 9, “Share-Based Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
We recognize stock compensation expense over the requisite service period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period.
As of September 30, 2018, we had 15,000 stock options outstanding and 60,000 restricted shares outstanding.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, the Company did not grant any equity compensation and no options or restricted stock awards vested, forfeited or canceled.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we recorded $59 and $149, respectively, of share-based compensation within general and administrative expenses of our continuing operations.
14  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 7.Pensions  



Defined Benefit Plans 



The following table provides the components of net periodic pension cost of our German defined benefit pension plans recognized in earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 8.Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 



Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 9.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss  



The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss by component, net of taxes, for the three months ended September 30, 2018: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 15  



CCUR HOLDINGS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Amounts in thousands, except share and per share data) 



 10.Commitments and Contingencies  



Severance Arrangements 



Pursuant to the terms of the employment agreements with the chief financial officer and another employee, employment may be terminated by either the respective employee or us at any time.
In the event an agreement is terminated by us without cause, or in certain circumstances terminates constructively or expires, the terminated employee will receive severance compensation for a period from six to 12 months, depending on the employee, and bonus severance.
Additionally, if terminated, our chief financial officer will be entitled to COBRA continuation coverage under the Company’s hospitalization and medical plan for the 12-month period following termination.
At September 30, 2018, the maximum contingent liability under these agreements was $491.
16  



 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings  



We are not presently involved in any material litigation.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, except as noted below.
There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent.
22  



There can be no assurance that we will complete the acquisition of an 80% interest in LuxeMark that we have under a non-binding letter of intent under the terms set forth in the letter of intent, or at all, because the letter of intent is not binding on us or on LuxeMark.
