Item 2.
See "Forward-Looking Statements" at the end of this discussion.
Overview



CDW Corporation is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the US, the UK and Canada.
Our broad array of offerings ranges from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions such as mobility, security, data center optimization, cloud computing, virtualization and collaboration.
We are technology "agnostic," with a broad portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands.
Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through over 6,000 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers.
We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our "vendor partners"), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer.
We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access.
We have three reportable segments, Corporate, Small Business and Public.
Our Corporate segment primarily serves US private sector business customers with more than 250 employees.
Our Small Business segment primarily serves US private sector business customers with up to 250 employees.
Our Public segment is comprised of government agencies and education and healthcare institutions in the US.
We also have two other operating segments: CDW UK and CDW Canada, each of which do not meet the reportable segment quantitative thresholds and, accordingly, are included in an all other category ("Other").
We may sell all or only select products that our vendor partners offer.
Each vendor partner agreement provides for specific terms and conditions, which may include one or more of the following: product return privileges, price protection policies, purchase discounts and vendor incentive programs, such as purchase or sales rebates and cooperative advertising reimbursements.
We also resell software for major software publishers.
Our agreements with software publishers allow the end-user customer to acquire software or licensed products and services.
In addition to helping our customers determine the best software solutions for their needs, we help them manage their software agreements, including warranties and renewals.
A significant portion of our advertising and marketing expenses are reimbursed through cooperative advertising programs with our vendor partners.
This is particularly the case for our Corporate and Small Business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their discrete perceptions of business and general economic conditions.
There continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the impact of the UK's planned withdrawal from the European Union ("EU") (referred to as "Brexit").
We have established a presence on the continent to support CDW UK's broader growth opportunities in the EU.
This also serves as a contingency plan to address future developments as needed around Brexit.
28

•Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels are a key factor influencing the purchasing levels of government, healthcare and education customers.
•Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market.
These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more "as-a-service" offerings, including Device-as-a-Service ("DaaS") and managed services.
Effective January 1, 2019, we made a change to the Non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide meaningful methods of evaluating our financial performance and have replaced EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin with Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin.
We made this change due to the continuing evolution of the IT consumption model.
Non-GAAP operating income is also being used for the first time in 2019 as a key business metric for our annual incentive compensation programs.
In addition to Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin, we believe that the most important financial and non-financial measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
These measures and ratios are compared to standards or objectives set by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve the standards and objectives.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."
The results of certain business metrics are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)There were 63 and 64 selling days for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(2)Defined as Total debt minus Cash and cash equivalents.
29

(3)Cash conversion cycle is defined as days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable and certain receivables due from vendors plus days of supply in Merchandise inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable and Accounts payable-inventory financing, based on a rolling three-month average.
30

Results of Operations



Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018



Results of operations, in dollars and as a percentage of Net sales are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



31

Net sales



Net sales by segment, in dollars and as a percentage of total Net sales, and the year-over-year dollar and percentage change in Net sales are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Total Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $352 million, or 9.7%, to $3,958 million, compared to $3,606 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, constant currency Net sales growth was 10.6%.
There was one fewer selling day in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018, and Net sales on an average daily sales basis increased 11.5%.
See "Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations" below for additional detail regarding constant currency Net sales growth.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, Net sales growth reflected growth across most major product categories, particularly client devices, software, servers and enterprise storage.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $170 million, or 10.9%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Corporate segment Net sales increased 12.6%.
Growth was primarily driven by client devices, software, networking and servers.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased by $28 million, or 8.5%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Small Business segment Net sales increased 10.3%.
Growth was primarily driven by client devices.
Public segment Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $101 million, or 8.2%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Public segment Net sales increased 9.9%.
The increase was primarily driven by growth in Government and Healthcare.
On an average daily sales basis, Net sales to Government and Healthcare customers increased 18.6% and 8.4%, respectively, both primarily driven by customers modernizing their infrastructure, including servers and enterprise storage.
Net sales in Education increased 2.4% on an average daily sales basis, primarily driven by client device growth.
Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $52 million, or 10.9%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018.
On an average daily sales basis, Net sales in Other increased 12.6%.
Both operations grew in local currency and Canada growth included the incremental Net sales from Scalar.
In addition, UK growth was driven in part by referral business for US-based customers.
The impact of foreign currency exchange decreased Other sales growth by approximately 670 basis points, due to the unfavorable impact resulting from the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar translations.
32

Gross profit



Gross profit increased $68 million, or 11.3%, to $672 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $604 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin increased 30 basis points to 17.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Selling and administrative expenses



Selling and administrative expenses increased $41 million, or 11.4%, to $404 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $363 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The increase was driven by higher payroll expenses due to increased coworkers and higher sales payroll expenses, including sales commissions, which are primarily driven by higher gross profit, two months of Scalar expenses and increased stock compensation expense.
Total coworker count was 9,434, including an incremental 342 coworkers from Scalar, up 684 from 8,750 at March 31, 2018.
Total coworker count was 9,019 at December 31, 2018.
As a percentage of total Net sales, Selling and administrative expenses increased 10 basis points to 10.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Operating income



During the first quarter of 2019, we evaluated our methodology for allocating certain depreciation and amortization expenses to each of our segments.
The evaluation resulted in a revision to the allocation of depreciation and amortization expenses from Headquarters to our reportable segments, effective January 1, 2019.
The prior period results have been recast to reflect these changes and present comparable information.
(2)Includes the financial results for our other operating segments, CDW UK and CDW Canada, which do not meet the reportable segment quantitative thresholds.
(3)Includes certain Headquarters' function costs that are not allocated to the segments.
Operating income was $229 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $25 million, or 12.2%, compared to $204 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher payroll expenses and higher stock compensation expense.
Total operating margin percentage increased 10 basis points to 5.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, from 5.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Corporate segment Operating income was $135 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $12 million, or 9.5%, compared to $123 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Corporate segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher payroll expenses and higher stock compensation expense.
33

Corporate segment operating margin percentage decreased 10 basis points to 7.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, from 7.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Small Business segment Operating income was $24 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $2 million, or 11.2%, compared to $22 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Small Business segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars partially offset by higher payroll expenses.
Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 20 basis points to 6.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, from 6.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Public segment Operating income was $76 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $6 million, or 8.3%, compared to $70 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Public segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher sales payroll expenses.
Public segment operating margin percentage remained flat at 5.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Other Operating income was $26 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $6 million, or 29.6%, compared to $20 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Other Operating income increased primarily due to higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher payroll expenses.
Other operating margin percentage increased 70 basis points to 4.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2019, from 4.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Income tax expense



Income tax expense was $39 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
The lower effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily attributable to higher excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and a discrete tax benefit of $3 million related to CDW Canada's acquisition of Scalar.
Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations



We have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 below.
Non-GAAP operating income margin is defined as Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of Net sales.
Net sales growth on a constant currency basis is defined as Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation on net sales compared to the prior period.
Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis are considered non-GAAP financial measures.
Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
Non-GAAP measures used by management may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
34

Non-GAAP operating income



Non-GAAP operating income was $287 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $28 million, or 10.7%, compared to $259 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
As a percentage of Net sales, Non-GAAP operating income was 7.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 7.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes amortization expense for acquisition-related intangible assets, primarily customer relationships, customer contracts and trade names.
(2)Includes other expenses such as payroll taxes on equity-based compensation during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Non-GAAP net income



Non-GAAP net income was $185 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $22 million, or 13.9%, compared to $163 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
(2)Includes amortization expense for acquisition-related intangible assets, primarily customer relationships, customer contracts and trade names.
(3)Includes a discrete tax benefit related to CDW Canada's acquisition of Scalar.
(4)Includes other expenses such as payroll taxes on equity-based compensation during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
35

Net sales growth on a constant currency basis



Net sales increased $352 million, or 9.7%, to $3,958 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to $3,606 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $379 million, or 10.6%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)Represents the effect of translating the prior year results of CDW UK and CDW Canada at the average exchange rates applicable in the current year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



Overview



We finance our operations and capital expenditures with internally generated cash from operations.
As of March 31, 2019, we also have $938 million of availability for borrowings under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and an additional £50 million ($65 million at March 31, 2019) under the CDW UK revolving credit facility.
Our liquidity and borrowing plans are established to align with our financial and strategic planning processes and ensure we have the necessary funding to meet our operating commitments, which primarily include the purchase of inventory, payroll and general expenses.
Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements



As of March 31, 2019, we had total indebtedness of $3.3 billion, of which $1.6 billion was secured indebtedness.
At March 31, 2019, we were in compliance with the covenants under our various credit agreements and indentures.
For additional details, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Inventory Financing Agreements



We have entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to facilitate the purchase of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions.
These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For additional details, see Note 4 (Inventory Financing Agreements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Share Repurchase Program



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we repurchased 1.9 million shares of our common stock for $177 million under the previously announced share repurchase program.
For more information on our share repurchase program, see Part II, Item 2, Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
36

Dividends



A summary of 2019 dividend activity for our common stock is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On May 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.295 per common share.
The dividend will be paid on June 11, 2019 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 24, 2019.
In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be limited by restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders and on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us, in each case, under the terms of our current and any future agreements governing our indebtedness.
Cash Flows



Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes items such as deferred income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and equity-based compensation expense.
(3)The change in Accounts receivable is primarily due to increased sales volume during the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2018 and mixing into customers with longer payment cycles.
(5)The change in Accounts payable-trade is due to increased sales in 2019 and the mix of vendors with longer payment terms.
(6)The change in Other is primarily driven by an increase in the receivables from vendors due to the growth in business.
In order to manage our working capital and operating cash needs, we monitor our cash conversion cycle, defined as days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable plus days of supply in inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average.
Components of our cash conversion cycle are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Represents the rolling three-month average of the balance of Accounts receivable, net at the end of the period, divided by average daily Net sales for the same three-month period.
Also incorporates components of other miscellaneous receivables.
(2)Represents the rolling three-month average of the balance of Merchandise inventory at the end of the period divided by average daily Cost of sales for the same three-month period.
(3)Represents the rolling three-month average of the combined balance of Accounts payable-trade, excluding cash overdrafts, and Accounts payable-inventory financing at the end of the period divided by average daily Cost of sales for the same three-month period.
The cash conversion cycle was 17 days at March 31, 2019 and 2018.
DSO, DIO and DPO increased 3, 2 and 5 days, respectively, compared to March 31, 2018.
Both DSO and DPO are impacted by third party services such as software as a service and warranties.
These sales have an unfavorable impact on DSO as the receivable is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets on a gross basis while the corresponding sales amount in the Consolidated Statement of Operations is recorded on a net basis.
In addition to the impact of these services on DPO, DPO also increased due to the mix of payables with certain vendors that have longer payment terms.
Additionally, as described above, average inventory balances increased compared to 2018, which led to an unfavorable impact on DIO.
Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities increased by $72 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period of the prior year.
The increase was primarily due to the completion of our acquisition of Scalar on February 1, 2019.
Additionally, Capital expenditures were $19 million and $16 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in capital expenditures is primarily due to the timing of investments for improvements to our information technology systems.
Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $51 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period of the prior year.
The decrease was primarily driven by borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and further leveraging our inventory financing arrangements, which were partially offset by our share repurchases during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
For additional details regarding our debt activities, see Note 7 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Contractual Obligations



There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Commitments and Contingencies



The information set forth in Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



The information set forth in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
Forward-Looking Statements



This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
We claim the protection of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for all forward-looking statements in this report.
The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date hereof.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.
