Item 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
Additional factors that may have a direct bearing on our operating results are discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 



BUSINESS OVERVIEW 



ClearOne is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and network streaming solutions.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we were awarded four more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile and echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array.
We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines.
Overall revenue declined in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 56% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Industry conditions 



We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The industry is also characterized by the influx of venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies keen to win market share even at the expense of mounting financial losses.
14 



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Economic conditions, challenges and risks 



The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with our Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
The patent infringement has also affected revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones and ceiling microphones.
Our revenues in the near term may also be adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018.
Our strength in professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays.
Despite our strong leadership position in the professional audio communications products market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market.
Revenue from our video products in the overall revenue mix has been improving on the back of a strong growth for our video products in 2016 that had continued in 2017.
We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance based media collaboration product and our high-end audio conferencing technology to provide growth in revenue in the near future.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware based video conferencing systems to software based video conferencing applications.
Most of our revenue from outside the U.S. is billed in US Dollars and is not exposed to any significant currency risk.
Results of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 



The following table sets forth certain items from our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations (dollars in thousands) for the three months ended March 31, 2018 (“2018-Q1”) and 2017 (“2017-Q1”), respectively, together with the percentage of total revenue which each such item represents: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



15 



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Revenue 



Our revenue decreased by $4.4 million, or 38%, to $7.3 million in 2018-Q1 compared to $11.7 million in 2017-Q1.
All product categories witnessed revenue declines with revenue declines of 43%, 23% and 20% for professional audio conferencing, unified communication end points and video products, respectively.
The share of professional audio communications products (which includes microphone products but not premium products) in our product mix declined from 74% in 2017-Q1 to 68% in 2018-Q1.
Share of video products in the revenue increased from 14% in 2017-Q1 to 18% in 2018-Q1 and share of UC end points in the revenue increased from 12% in 2017-Q1 to 14% in 2018-Q1.
During 2018-Q1, revenue declined across all regions except Canada and Australia.
The revenue declines for Asia Pacific including Middle East, Europe and Africa, and Americas were 28%, 16% and 44%, respectively.
Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 



Cost of goods sold (“COGS”) includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the manufacture of our products (including material and direct labor), our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
Our gross profit for 2018-Q1 was approximately $4.1 million or 56% compared to approximately $6.7 million, or 57%, for 2017-Q1.
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional audio conferencing products.
We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs.
Total operating expenses were $6.5 million for 2018-Q1 compared to $7.2 million for 2017-Q1.
The following contains a more detailed discussion of expenses related to sales and marketing, research and product development, general and administrative, and other items.
Sales and Marketing - S&M expenses include selling, customer service, and marketing expenses such as employee-related costs, allocations of overhead expenses, trade shows, and other advertising and selling expenses.
S&M expenses for 2018-Q1 increased to $2.9 million from $2.7 million for 2017-Q1.
The increase was mainly due to increase in marketing expenses related to tradeshows and increases in inventories used for customer demonstrations.
Research and Product Development - R&D expenses include research and development, product line management, engineering services, and test and application expenses, including employee related costs, outside services, expensed materials, depreciation, and an allocation of overhead expenses.
R&D expenses were approximately $2.1 million for 2018-Q1, as compared to $2.4 million for 2017-Q1.
The decrease was primarily due to reductions in project related expenses and employee costs related to salaries and benefits.
G&A expenses decreased approximately 23% to $1.6 million for 2018-Q1 compared with approximately $2.1 million in 2017-Q1.
The reduction was primarily due to the decrease in legal costs and employee costs related to salaries and benefits.
No legal expenses were capitalized in 2017-Q1.
Other income reduced in 2018-Q1 due to reduction in interest income caused by decline in the investment holdings and due to higher realized losses on liquidated investments.
The 3.9% decrease in the forecasted effective tax rate was primarily due to a reduction in corporate tax rates as a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, offset by a decrease in forecasted full-year income.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 



As of March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $5.6 million with no material change from December 31, 2017.
Our working capital was $24.9 million and $23.3 million as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018, a decrease of cash used of approximately $1.1 million from $1.4 million of cash used in operating activities in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash inflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $2.9 million partially offset by an increase in net loss by $1.4 million and a decrease in non-cash charges of $0.4 million.
Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to net cash flows used by investing activities of $0.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase in cash provided of $1.8 million.
The increase was primarily due to a decrease in net purchases of marketable securities of approximately $3.0 million, partially offset by $1.3 million in capitalization of patent defense costs.
Capitalization of patent defense costs.
When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018 we spent $1.3 million of legal costs related to the defense of our patents and capitalized the entire amount.
Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $0.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, which consisted of cash outflows of $0.6 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and $0.1 million for dividend payments.
Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $1.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2017, which consisted of cash outflows of $0.9 million on repurchase and cancellation of stock and stock options and $0.4 million for dividend payments.
We have already spent about $5.1 million from 2016 through March 31, 2018 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense.
We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing the share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures.
In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels.
We also believe that the measures taken by us will yield higher revenues in the future.
We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans.
We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs.
In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth.
At March 31, 2018, we had inventory totaling $23.2 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $8.6 million.
This compares to total inventories of $24.7 million and non-current inventory of $8.7 million as of December 31, 2017.
We review the accounting policies used in reporting our financial results on a regular basis.
Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1.
“Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, there have been no changes to the critical accounting policies as explained in our 2017 Form 10-K.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 



For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 3: “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
