Item 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer a high level of functionality, reliability and scalability.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
During the first quarter of 2019, we began shipping our patented Beamforming Microphone Array Ceiling Tile (BMA CT) to our partners.
All of the innovations developed for the BMA CT make the integrator’s job easier and more profitable.
The BMA CT dramatically transforms how integrators can approach system design for ceiling tile installations, allowing for multi-array setups that can utilize a single, low-channel count digital-signal-processing (DSP) mixer while maintaining ClearOne’s high level of performance and reliability.
Further simplification comes from the array’s built-in power amplifier, which allows each array to drive two 10-Watt, 8-Ohm loudspeakers.
The BMA CT also features ClearOne’s proprietary adaptive steering technology (think of it as smart switching).
This provides impeccable room coverage while eliminating the need to adjust individual beams.
Integrators can daisy chain ceiling tiles via P-Link (ClearOne’s proprietary peripheral link) for larger conference setups – for simpler wiring and longer distances compared to networked home-run connections.
P-Link also allows integrators to daisy chain additional peripherals such as wireless mics, USB Expanders, and GPIO Expanders.
The system supports all of this functionality with zero consumption of analog I/O and signal processing in the DSP mixer leaving those resources available for other needs.
The Company was awarded a Sound & Video Contractor magazine “Best of Show Award” for BMA CT, showcased at InfoComm conference in Orlando, Florida in June 2019.
In August 2019, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued patent number 10,397,697 to ClearOne.
This patent, entitled “Band-Limited Beamforming Microphone Array,” describes a method, among other things, of making or using a band-limited beamforming microphone array by augmenting beamformed audio signals with additional audio signals that are not included in the beamforming process.
The microphones that generate these additional signals are referred to as non-beamforming microphones.
The invention significantly extends design flexibility because the augmented beamforming technology enables a broad range of design choices from larger, higher performance, higher cost beamforming arrays, to smaller beamforming arrays with good performance for less demanding environments at a lower cost.
16 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



We also introduced COLLABORATE® Space to our growing family of collaboration solutions.
It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise.
Designed as a persistent, user-friendly collaboration suite, COLLABORATE Space contains many powerful UCC capabilities, as well as the seamless ability to make calls outside the network.
We also added new features including classroom functionality, multiple screen support, and more.
The new classroom functionality now found within COLLABORATE Space provides Q&A participation, giving each user electronic “hand raise” capability.
There’s also new moderator control over audio and video for all participants, which can number up to 100.
If needed, additional participants can be added to any classroom in increments of 100.
The moderator also has the ability to transfer the “presenter” role to any participant during the session.
Additionally, COLLABORATE Space now includes multi-display support for the moderator host of any conference.
Up to 3 displays can be used – one for local participants, one for remote participants, and one for content sharing.
With COLLABORATE Space, users can work together one-on-one, or in groups of hundreds, with integrated file sharing, searchable archives, and user presence information.
They can connect with colleagues and contacts, via audio and video, with the most intuitive collaboration tools.
Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes.
On August 5, 2019, the Honorable Edmond E. Chang of the Northern District of Illinois issued a preliminary injunction order in the Company’s ongoing litigation with Shure Incorporated, Case No.
17-cv-3087.
In that litigation, ClearOne asserts that Shure’s MXA910 Ceiling Array Microphone, which competes with ClearOne’s beamforming microphone array products, infringes certain of ClearOne’s patents.
The August 5 order held that ClearOne had "met its burden of demonstrating entitlement to the extraordinary relief of a preliminary injunction" on U.S. Patent No.
9,813,806 (the “Graham Patent”).
We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
Overall revenue declined in the third quarter of 2019 when compared to the third quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except microphones.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased from 45% in the third quarter of 2018 to 42% during the third quarter of 2019.
Net loss decreased from $10.1 million in the third quarter of 2018 to $2.0 million in the third quarter of 2019.
The net loss in the third quarter of 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.
Overall revenue declined in the first nine months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during the first nine months of 2019 from 49% during the same nine months in 2018.
Net loss during the first nine months of 2019 decreased to $6.4 million from $14.2 million during the same period in 2018.
The net loss in 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of a valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.
We believe the recent decision by the U.S. District Court in August granting our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent Shure from manufacturing, marketing, and selling its competing ceiling microphone array in an infringing configuration is an incredibly valuable ruling for ClearOne and its business.
The decision validates the strength and importance of ClearOne’s intellectual property rights, recognizes ClearOne’s innovations in this space, and stops Shure from further infringing the Graham patent pending a full trial.
17 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Industry conditions 



We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals.
Economic conditions, challenges and risks 



The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.
We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications.
We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future.
However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive.
18 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 



The following table sets forth certain items from our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations (dollars in thousands) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 (“2019 Q3”) ("2019 YTD") and 2018 (“2018-Q3”) ("2018-YTD"), respectively, together with the percentage of total revenue which each such item represents: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue 



Our revenue decreased to $6.0 million in 2019-Q3 compared to $6.7 million in 2018-Q3.
The highest decline was seen in the video category with a 21.5% decline followed by audio conferencing with a 15% decline.
Revenue from microphones grew by 3% due to modest growth in sales of ceiling mics and beamforming microphones.
The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in the professional installed audio conferencing and personal conferencing.
The decline in the video category was due to a decline in both network media streaming and video conferencing.
We believe that the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and the microphone categories.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018-Q3 to 49% in 2019-Q3.
The share of microphones increased from 32% to 37%.
The share of video products in the revenue mix dropped slightly to 15% from 17%.
During 2019-Q3 revenue declined in the USA, Canada, Australia, China, and Northern Europe offset by revenue increases in Japan, South Korea, Middle East, India, and Southern Europe.
The Asia Pacific, including the Middle East, increased by 14%, Europe and Africa declined by 9% and the Americas declined by 21%.
Our revenue decreased to $18.7 million in 2019 YTD compared to $20.9 million in 2018 YTD.
The highest decline was seen in the audio conferencing category with a 20% decline followed by microphones with a 2% decline.
Revenue from video products grew by a modest 3% mainly due to growth in revenue from sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services.
The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing.
The decline in the microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by an increase in revenue from wireless mics.
The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphone categories.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018 YTD to 46% in 2019 YTD.
The share of microphones increased from 32% to 35%.
The share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 17% to 20%.
During 2019-YTD revenue declined in all regions except the Middle East, India, South Korea, and Southern Europe.
The decline was more pronounced in Canada, China, Australia, and Northern Europe.
The Asia Pacific, including the Middle East increased by 3%, Europe and Africa declined by 12% and the Americas declined by 16%.
19 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 



Cost of goods sold includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the repackaging of our products, our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
Our gross profit for 2019-Q3 was approximately $2.5 million or 42% compared to approximately $3.0 million, or 45%, for 2018-Q3.
Gross Profit margin decreased mainly due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during 2019 YTD from 49% during 2018 YTD.
Our long-term inventory includes approximately $1.6 million of wireless microphone-related finished goods and assemblies, $1.8 million of Converge Pro and Beamforming microphone array products, $0.8 million of network media streaming products and about $1.9 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
Total operating expenses were $4.6 million for 2019-Q3 compared to $5.3 million for 2018-Q3.
Total operating expenses were $14.8 million for 2019 YTD compared to $18.1 million for 2018 YTD.
The following contains a more detailed discussion of expenses related to sales and marketing, research and product development, general and administrative, and other items.
S&M expenses for 2019-Q3 decreased to $1.9 million from $2.2 million for 2018-Q3.
The decrease was mainly due to decreases in employee-related costs including benefits and commissions and allocations of overhead expenses partially offset by an increase in demonstration inventory costs.
S&M expenses for 2019 YTD decreased to $6.1 million from $7.8 million for 2018 YTD.
R&D expenses were approximately $1.4 million for 2019-Q3, as compared to $1.8 million for 2018-Q3.
R&D expenses were approximately $4.3 million for 2019 YTD, as compared to $5.8 million for 2018 YTD.
G&A expenses remained almost the same at $1.30 million in 2019-Q3 compared to $1.34 million in 2018-Q3.
G&A expenses for 2019 YTD decreased marginally to $4.3 million compared to $4.5 million in 2018 YTD.
Other income increased to $142,000 in 2019-Q3 compared to $5,000 in 2018-Q3.
The increase was mainly due to the recording of realized gain on sale of marketable securities of $83,000 in 2019-Q3.
Other income increased to $0.2 million from $0.1 million in 2018 YTD.
The increase was mainly due to the increase in realized gain on sale of marketable securities.
Provision for income taxes 



During 2019 YTD, we did not recognize any benefit from the losses incurred due to setting up of full valuation allowance.
During 2018-Q3 the Company recorded discrete tax expense of $6.5 million, due primarily to the recording of a full valuation allowance on the Company’s net deferred tax assets.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 



As of September 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $2.0 million compared to $11.2 million as of December 31, 2018.
Our working capital was $22.5 million and $28.4 million as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $6.6 million in 2019 YTD, an increase of cash used of approximately $3.0 million from $3.6 million of cash used in operating activities in 2018 YTD.
The increase in cash used was primarily due to a decrease in non-cash charges of $3.4 million and increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $7.3 million which includes $4.5 million towards payment of a bond for securing the preliminary injunction in our litigation to stop the infringement of our patents, partially offset by a decrease in net loss by $7.7 million.
Net cash used in investing activities was $2.6 million for 2019 YTD compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $1.3 million during the 2018 YTD, an increase in cash used of $3.9 million.
The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in net cash inflows from marketable securities of approximately $4.3 million partially offset by a decrease in capitalized patent defense costs by $0.2 million.
Capitalization of patent defense costs.
When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years.
During 2019 YTD we spent $3.4 million on legal costs related to the defense of our patents and capitalized the entire amount.
We have already spent approximately $11.9 million from 2016 through September 30, 2019 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense.
We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing our share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures.
In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels.
We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans.
We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs.
In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth.
At September 30, 2019, we had open purchase orders of approximately $1.0 million for purchase of inventory.
At September 30, 2019, we had inventory totaling $18.8 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $7.1 million.
This compares to total inventories of $22.2 million and non-current inventory of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2018.
Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1.
