Item 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



This report on Form 10-Q includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
Additional factors that may have a direct bearing on our operating results are discussed in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 



BUSINESS OVERVIEW 



ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer a high level of functionality, reliability and scalability.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
We have achieved this through strategic technological acquisitions as well as by internal product development.
During the first quarter of 2019, we began shipping our patented Beamforming Microphone Array Ceiling Tile (BMA CT) to our partners.
All of the innovations developed for the BMA CT make the integrator’s job easier and more profitable.
The BMA CT dramatically transforms how integrators can approach system design for ceiling tile installations, allowing for multi-array setups that can utilize a single, low-channel count digital-signal-processing (DSP) mixer while maintaining ClearOne’s high level of performance and reliability.
Further simplification comes from the array’s built-in power amplifier, which allows each array to drive two 10-Watt, 8-Ohm loudspeakers.
The BMA CT also features ClearOne’s proprietary adaptive steering technology (think of it as smart switching).
This provides impeccable room coverage while eliminating the need to adjust individual beams.
Integrators can daisy chain ceiling tiles via P-Link (ClearOne’s proprietary peripheral link) for larger conference setups – for simpler wiring and longer distances compared to networked home-run connections.
P-Link also allows integrators to daisy chain additional peripherals such as wireless mics, USB Expanders, and GPIO Expanders.
The system supports all of this functionality with zero consumption of analog I/O and signal processing in the DSP mixer leaving those resources available for other needs.
The Company was awarded a Sound & Video Contractor magazine “Best of Show Award” for BMA CT, showcased at InfoComm conference in Orlando, Florida in June 2019.
We also introduced COLLABORATE® Space to our growing family of collaboration solutions.
It’s a suite that unifies messaging, calls and meetings and will energize workflows and increase productivity for everyone involved in the enterprise.
Designed as a persistent, user-friendly collaboration suite, COLLABORATE Space contains many powerful UCC capabilities, as well as the seamless ability to make calls outside the network.
15 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



With COLLABORATE Space, users can work together one-on-one, or in groups of hundreds, with integrated file sharing, searchable archives, and user presence information.
They can connect with colleagues and contacts, via audio and video, with the most intuitive collaboration tools.
Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes.
We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
Overall revenue declined in the second quarter of 2019 when compared to the second quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased marginally to 46% during the second quarter of 2019 from 47% for the second quarter of 2018.
Net loss decreased marginally from $2.2 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $2.1 million in the second quarter of 2019.
The decrease in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced operating expenses offset by reduced gross profit and tax benefit.
Overall revenue declined in the first six months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
We are inappropriately being forced to compete against our own patented technology.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during the first six months of 2019 from 52% during the same six months in 2018.
Net loss during the first six months of 2019 increased to $4.4 million from $4.0 million during the same period in 2018.
The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced tax benefit and gross profit partially offset by reduced operating expenses.
We believe the recent decision by the U.S. District Court in August granting our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent our competitor from manufacturing, marketing, and selling its competing ceiling microphone array in an infringing configuration is an incredibly valuable ruling for ClearOne and its business.
Industry conditions 



We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The industry is also characterized by venture capitalist funded start-ups and private companies willing to fund cumulative cash losses in order to gain market share and achieve certain non-financial goals.
Economic conditions, challenges and risks 



The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our competitors vary within each product category.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.
We face intense competition in this market from well-established market leaders as well as emerging players rich with marketing funds.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.
We believe we are also well positioned to capitalize on the continuing migration away from the traditional hardware-based video conferencing systems to software-based video conferencing applications.
We derive a major portion of our revenue (approximately 47% for the year ended December 31, 2018) from international operations and expect this trend to continue in the future.
However, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk if the U.S. dollar is strong against other currencies as it will make U.S. Dollar denominated prices of our products less competitive.
16 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Results of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 



The following table sets forth certain items from our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations (dollars in thousands) for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 (“2019-Q2”) ("2019-H1") and 2018 (“2018-Q2”) ("2018-H1"), respectively, together with the percentage of total revenue which each such item represents: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue 



Our revenue decreased to $6.4 million in 2019-Q2 compared to $7.0 million in 2018-Q2.
The highest decline was seen in the audio conferencing category with a 20% decline followed by microphones with a marginal 1% decline.
Revenue from video products grew by 16% on the back of growth in sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras and cloud-based videoconferencing services.
The decline in the audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing.
The decline in microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones offset by increase in revenue from wireless mics.
The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphones categories.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 52% in 2018-Q2 to 45% in 2019-Q2.
The share of microphones increased from 32% to 35%.
Share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 16% to 20%.
During 2019-Q2 revenue declined in the USA, Canada, Australia, Japan, China and Northern Europe offset by revenue increases in the Middle East, India, South Asia, South Korea and Central Europe and Southern Europe.
Asia Pacific, including the Middle East, increased by 6%, Europe and Africa declined by 8% and the Americas declined by 15%.
Our revenue decreased to $12.7 million in 2019-H1 compared to $14.3 million in 2018-H1.
The highest decline was seen in audio conferencing category with 23% decline followed by microphones with 5% decline.
Revenue from video products grew by 14% on the back of growth in sales of videoconferencing appliances, cameras, cloud-based videoconferencing services and network media streaming products.
The decline in audio conferencing category was due to a decline in all subcategories including professional installed audio conferencing, personal conferencing and tabletop conferencing.
The decline in microphones category was due to a decline in beamforming microphones and ceiling microphones offset by increase in revenue from wireless mics.
The on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in audio conferencing and microphones categories.
The share of audio conferencing products in our product mix decreased from 51% in 2018-H1 to 44% in 2019-H1.
The share of microphones increased from 32% to 34%.
Share of video products in the revenue mix increased from 17% to 22%.
During 2019-H1 revenue declined in all regions except the Middle East, India, South Asia and Central Europe and Southern Europe.
The decline was more pronounced in Canada, Australia, Japan and Northern Europe.
Asia Pacific, including the Middle East declined by 2%, Europe and Africa declined by 14% and Americas declined by 14%.
17 



Table of Contents  



MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 



Costs of Goods Sold and Gross Profit 



Cost of goods sold includes expenses associated with finished goods purchased from outsourced manufacturers, the repackaging of our products, our manufacturing and operations organization, property and equipment depreciation, warranty expense, freight expense, royalty payments, and the allocation of overhead expenses.
Our gross profit for 2019-Q2 was approximately $2.9 million or 46% compared to approximately $3.3 million, or 47%, for 2018-Q2.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during 2019-H1 from 52% during 2018-H1.
Our profitability in the near-term continues to depend significantly on our revenues from professional installed audio-conferencing products.
We hold long-term inventory and if we are unable to sell our long-term inventory, our profitability might be affected by inventory write-offs and price mark-downs.
Our long-term inventory includes approximately $2.0 million of wireless microphone-related finished goods and assemblies, $1.6 million of Converge Pro 2 products and about $1.7 million of raw materials that will be used for manufacturing professional audio conferencing products.
Total operating expenses were $5.0 million for 2019-Q2 compared to $6.2 million for 2018-Q2.
Total operating expenses were $10.1 million for 2019-H1 compared to $12.8 million for 2018-H1.
The following contains a more detailed discussion of expenses related to sales and marketing, research and product development, general and administrative, and other items.
S&M expenses for 2019-Q2 decreased to $2.3 million from $2.8 million for 2018-Q2.
S&M expenses for 2019-H1 decreased to $4.2 million from $5.6 million for 2018-H1.
Research and Product Development - R&D expenses include research and development, product line management, engineering services, and test and application expenses, including employee related costs, outside services, expensed materials, depreciation, and an allocation of overhead expenses.
R&D expenses were approximately $1.3 million for 2019-Q2, as compared to $1.9 million for 2018-Q2.
R&D expenses were approximately $2.9 million for 2019-H1, as compared to $4.0 million for 2018-H1.
G&A expenses remained almost the same at $1.5 million in 2019-Q2 and 2018-Q2.
G&A expenses for 2019-H1 decreased marginally to $3.0 million compared to $3.2 million in 2018-H1.
It remained almost the same in 2019-Q2 and 2018-Q2.
It increased marginally in 2019-H1 compared to 2018-H1.
Provision for income taxes 



During 2019-H1, we did not recognize any benefit from the losses incurred due to setting up of full valuation allowance.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 



As of June 30, 2019, our cash and cash equivalents were approximately $2.4 million compared to $11.2 million as of December 31, 2018.
Our working capital was $20.4 million and $28.4 million as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Net cash used in operating activities was approximately $1.4 million in 2019-H1, a decrease of cash used of approximately $0.5 million from $1.9 million of cash used in operating activities in 2018-H1.
The decrease in cash used was primarily due to an increase in non-cash charges of $1.2 million partially offset by increase in cash outflows due to change in operating assets and liabilities of $0.3 million and an increase in net loss by $0.5 million.
Net cash used by investing activities was $7.5 million for 2019-H1 compared to net cash flows provided by investing activities of $1.1 million during the 2018-H1, an increase in cash used of $8.6 million.
The increase was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of marketable securities of approximately $8.8 million partially offset by decrease in capitalized patent defense costs by $0.2 million.
Capitalization of patent defense costs.
When we capitalize patent defense costs we amortize the costs over the remaining estimated useful life of the patent, which is 15 to 17 years.
We have already spent about $10.8 million from 2016 through June 30, 2019 towards this litigation and may be required to spend more to continue our legal defense.
We believe the recent decision by the U.S. District Court in August granting our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent our competitor from manufacturing, marketing, and selling its competing ceiling microphone array in an infringing configuration is an incredibly valuable ruling for ClearOne and its business.
We have been actively engaged in preserving cash by suspending our dividend program, allowing our share repurchase program to expire and implementing company-wide cost reduction measures.
In addition, we expect to generate additional cash as our inventory levels are brought down to historical levels.
We believe all of these and effective management of working capital will provide the liquidity needed to meet our short-term and long-term operating requirements and finance our growth plans.
We also believe that our strong portfolio of intellectual property and our solid brand equity in the market will enable us to raise additional capital if and when needed to meet our short and long-term financing needs.
In addition to capital expenditures, we may use cash in the near future for selective infusions of technology, sales and marketing, infrastructure, and other investments to fuel our growth.
At June 30, 2019, we had open purchase orders of approximately $1.5 million, primarily related to inventory purchases.
At June 30, 2019, we had inventory totaling $20.0 million, of which non-current inventory accounted for $7.7 million.
This compares to total inventories of $22.2 million and non-current inventory of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2018.
Except with respect to our revenue recognition practices included in Note 1.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 



For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1: “Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included under Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
