Item 1.
The performance and simplicity of our advanced, comprehensive solutions offer unprecedented levels of functionality, reliability and scalability.
Basis of Presentation: 



The fiscal year for ClearOne is the 12 months ending on December 31.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
Significant Accounting Policies: 



The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Adoption of New Revenue Standard: On January 1, 2018, as required, the Company adopted ASU No.
2014-09 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASU 2014-09”), ASU No.
2015-14 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date (“ASU 2015-14”), ASU No.
2016-08 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (“ASU 2016-08”), ASU No.
2016-10 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing (“ASU 2016-10”), ASU No.
2016-12 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients (“ASU 2016-12”) and ASU No.
2016-20 - Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASU 2016-20”) (collectively “the New Revenue Standard”).
To conform to the New Revenue Standard, the Company modified its revenue recognition policy as described further below.
Change in Accounting Policy: On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the New Revenue Standard using the modified retrospective method, applying the guidance to all open contracts and recognized an adjustment to increase retained earnings by $2,783, reduce deferred product revenue by $4,338 and reduce distributor channel inventories by $1,555 as of that date.
The comparative financial information has not been restated and continues to be presented under the accounting standards in effect for the respective periods.
The Company applied the practical expedient and has not disclosed the revenue allocated to future shipments of partially completed contracts.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, revenue decreased by $784 and $1,365, respectively due to the impact of the adoption of the New Revenue Standard.
Revenue Recognition Policy: The Company generates revenue from sales of its audio and video conferencing equipment to distributors, system integrators and value-added resellers.
The Company also generates revenue, to a much lesser extent, from sale of software and licenses to distributors, system integrators, value-added resellers and end-users.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation in an amount reflecting the consideration to which it expects to be entitled.
For sales agreements, the Company has identified the promise to transfer products, each of which are distinct, to be the performance obligation.
The Company applies a five-step approach in determining the amount and timing of revenue to be recognized: (1) identifying the contract with a customer, (2) identifying the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determining the transaction price, (4) allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract and (5) recognizing revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the Company’s revenue is recognized at the time control of the products transfers to the customer.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
Although payment terms vary, most distributor agreements require payment within 45 days of invoicing.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation.
The Company recognizes revenue from sales agreements upon transferring control of a product to the customer.
was $159 and $547, respectively.
Sales returns and allowances are estimated based on historical experience.
The Company reviews warranty and related claims activity and records provisions, as necessary.
Since each delivery constitutes a performance obligation, the Company allocates the transaction price of the contract to each performance obligation based on the stand-alone selling price of the products.
The Company invoices the customer for each delivery upon shipment and recognizes revenues in accordance with delivery terms.
Although payment terms vary, distributors typically pay within 45 days of invoicing and dealers pay within 30 days of invoicing.
As scheduled delivery dates are within one year, revenue allocated to future shipments of partially completed contracts are not disclosed.
7 



Table of Contents  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited - Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 



Recent Accounting Pronouncements: 



In February 2016, the FASB released ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) to bring transparency to lessee balance sheets.
The ASU will require organizations that lease assets (lessees) to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by all leases with terms of more than 12 months.
The standard will apply to both types of leases-capital (or finance) leases and operating leases.
Previously, GAAP has required only capital leases to be recognized on lessee balance sheets.
The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early application will be permitted for all organizations.
The Company has not yet selected a transition method and is currently evaluating the effect that the updated standard will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which addresses eight specific cash flow issues with the objective of reducing the existing diversity in practice.
ASU 2016-15 became effective for the Company on January 1, 2018.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting.
The new guidance provides clarity and reduces both (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award.
The accounting standard update became effective for the Company on January 1, 2018.
2.
Revenue Information 



The following table disaggregates the Company’s revenue into primary product groups: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following table disaggregates the Company’s revenue into major regions: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



3.
Marketable Securities 



The Company has classified its marketable securities as available-for-sale securities.
Gains and losses on marketable security transactions are reported on the specific-identification method.
Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned.
The amortized cost, gross unrealized holding gains, gross unrealized holding losses, and fair value for available-for-sale securities by major security type and class of securities at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



9 



Table of Contents  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited - Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 



Maturities of marketable securities classified as available-for-sale securities were as follows at September 30, 2018: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Debt securities in an unrealized loss position as of September 30, 2018 were not deemed impaired at acquisition and subsequent declines in fair value are not deemed attributed to declines in credit quality.
Management believes that it is more likely than not that the securities will receive a full recovery of par value, although there can be no assurance that such recovery will occur.
The available-for-sale marketable securities with continuous gross unrealized loss position for less than 12 months and 12 months or greater and their related fair values were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



5.
Intangible Assets 



Intangible assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 consisted of the following: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



10 



Table of Contents  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited - Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 



The amortization of intangible assets for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 was as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The estimated future amortization expense of intangible assets is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



6.
Current finished goods did not include distributor channel inventories in the amounts of approximately $1,555 as of December 31, 2017.
Distributor channel inventories represented inventories at distributors and other customers where revenue recognition criteria had not yet been achieved.
Net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $45 and $471, respectively.
During the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2017 there was no net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory.
11 



Table of Contents  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited - Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 



7.
Provisions of the restated 2007 Plan include the granting of up to 2,000,000 incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units.
Options may be granted to employees, officers, non-employee directors and other service providers and may be granted upon such terms as the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determines in their sole discretion.
As of September 30, 2018, there were 706,091 options outstanding under the 2007 Plan.
As of September 30, 2018, the 2007 Plan had 789,003 authorized unissued options.
A summary of the stock option activity under the Company’s plans for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



As of September 30, 2018, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options, net of forfeitures, was approximately $379, which will be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.32 years.
Share-based compensation expense has been recorded as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



8.
Shareholders’ Equity 



Stock Repurchase Program 



On March 9, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the repurchase of up to $10,000 of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program.
The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases.
On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company renewed and extended the repurchase program for up to an additional $10,000 of common stock over the next twelve months.
The transactions effectuated to date occurred in open market purchases.
Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again.
Cash Dividends 



On February 21, 2018, the Company declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share of ClearOne common stock.
The dividend was paid on March 21, 2018 to shareholders of record as of March 7, 2018.
On June 13, 2018, the Company announced the suspension of its dividend program.
12 



Table of Contents  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited - Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)  



9.
Fair Value Measurements 



The fair value of the Company’s financial instruments reflects the amounts that the Company estimates it will receive in connection with the sale of an asset or pay in connection with the transfer of a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (exit price).
The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the use of inputs used in valuation techniques into the following three levels: 



Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
This category generally includes U.S. Government and agency securities; municipal securities; mutual funds and securities sold and not yet settled.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs.
The substantial majority of the Company’s financial instruments are valued using observable inputs.
The following table sets forth the fair value of the financial instruments re-measured by the Company as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



10.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had an aggregate of approximately $7.9 million in deferred tax assets primarily related to intangible assets, net operating losses, tax credit carryforwards, and inventory basis differences.
Significant judgment and estimates are required in determining whether valuation allowances should be established as well as the amount of such allowances.
When making such determination, consideration is given to, among other things, the following: 



● sufficient taxable income within the allowed carryback or carryforward periods; 



● future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, including any tax planning strategies that could be utilized; 



● nature or character (e.g., ordinary vs. capital) of the deferred tax assets and liabilities; and 



● future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards.
Accordingly, the Company recorded a full valuation allowance at September 30, 2018.
The Company’s forecasted effective tax benefit rate at September 30, 2018 is 0%, as compared to the 10.8% effective tax rate recorded at December 31, 2017.
The 10.8% decrease is primarily due to not recognizing benefit in 2018-Q3 for pre-tax losses and credits, as a result of the Company’s full valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets.
The Company recorded discrete tax expense of $6.5M in 2018-Q3, due primarily to the recording of a full valuation allowance on the Company’s net deferred tax assets.
13 



Table of Contents  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited - Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) 



11.
Subsequent Events 



On October 25, 2018, the Company completed its reincorporation from a Utah corporation to a Delaware corporation (the “Reincorporation”).
The Reincorporation was approved by shareholders of the Company at the Company’s annual meeting of Shareholders on October 25, 2018.
On November 5, 2018, the Company commenced a rights offering pursuant to which each shareholder of record as of November 5, 2018 shall be entitled to purchase one (1) share of the Company’s common stock at a subscription price of $1.20 per whole share (the "Basic Subscription Right"), or a maximum of 8,306,535 shares.
If a shareholder exercises its Basic Subscription Right in full and other shareholders do not fully exercise their Basic Subscription Rights, a shareholder will have an over-subscription right to purchase the same number of shares of the Company’s common stock that it may acquire pursuant to the exercise of its Basic Subscription Right, at the same subscription price of $1.20 per whole share, additional shares of common stock that remain unsubscribed at the expiration of the rights offering.
Over-subscription rights will be available only to shareholders who exercise their basic subscription rights in full.
The over-subscription rights will be subject to availability and pro rata allocation of shares among shareholders exercising their over-subscription right.
The rights offering will expire on Monday, November 19, 2018 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time.
The rights offering is being conducted pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 5, 2018 and the prospectus dated November 5, 2018 included therein.
14 



Table of Contents
