Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.
It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met.
In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events.
Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.
(b) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
40 



Table of Contents  



  Part II    OTHER INFORMATION    



  Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
The information set forth above under Note 11 contained in the "Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
The risks described below are not the only risks we face.
Additional risks that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also impair our business operations.
The risk factors set forth below with an asterisk (*) next to the title contain substantive changes to the description of the risk factors associated with our business as previously disclosed in Item 1A to our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
* We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Xcerra acquisition or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.
Cohu acquired Xcerra Corporation (“Xcerra”) on October 1, 2018, at which time Xcerra became a wholly owned subsidiary of Cohu (the “Merger”).
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate Xcerra, which is expected to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
The integration process may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively or delayed, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits.
In addition, the integration of Xcerra may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customers, suppliers and other business relationships.
Additional integration challenges and risks include: 



  ●   difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where Cohu has no or limited direct prior experience;    



  ●   such a new market for Cohu, the automated test equipment market, is intensely competitive with entrenched large competitors who are much larger than Cohu;    



  ●   successfully managing relationships with Cohu and Xcerra’s combined supplier and customer base;    



  ●   coordinating and integrating independent research and development and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs;    



  ●   coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company’s capabilities and the direction of product development;    



  ●   difficulties and significant costs in integrating the systems and processes of two companies with complex operations including multiple manufacturing sites;    



  ●   difficulties and potential loss of sales in transitioning customers from certain Xcerra products that are being discontinued and to Cohu products;    



  ●   product manufacturing disruptions and delays as we consolidate certain manufacturing sites;    



  ●   difficulties and errors that may occur in integrating disparate accounting staffs, processes and systems;    



  ●   the increased scale and complexity of Cohu’s operations resulting from the Merger;    



  ●   Cohu’s ability to achieve the targeted cost synergies within the expected time frame, and significant costs of integration and restructuring;    



  ●   retaining key employees of Cohu and Xcerra;    



  ●   obligations that Cohu will have to counterparties of Xcerra that arise as a result of the change in control of Xcerra;    



  ●   legal impediments, delays and significant costs to reduce headcounts in various geographies;    



  ●   the impact of litigation and potential liabilities we may be inheriting from Xcerra; and    



  ●   diversion of management’s attention to integration matters.
In addition, even if Xcerra is integrated successfully, the full anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are anticipated.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process.
As a result, it cannot be assured that the Merger will result in the realization of the full or any anticipated benefits.
41 



Table of Contents  



We have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger that could adversely affect our results of operations.
Although we have completed the Merger, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs in connection with the Merger, including restructuring expenses and the payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Merger and related financing transactions.
Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process, and restructuring charges may significantly exceed original estimates.
For example, a significant portion of planned cost synergies relate to headcount reductions, primarily in foreign jurisdictions where the labor laws are complex.
Any delays in implementing such headcount reductions, or increased costs to implement, would materially impact the cost synergies achieved.
These could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Furthermore, we expect to incur material restructuring and integration charges in connection with the Merger, which may adversely affect our operating results in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid.
Cohu incurred $9.8 million and $0.4 million of acquisition-related costs, and $37.8 million and $9.1 million of restructuring charges, for the Xcerra acquisition during fiscal year 2018 and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
* Xcerra may underperform relative to our expectations.
Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards is severely limited.
As a result of the Merger an ownership change has occurred at Xcerra and as a consequence Cohu’s ability to utilize Xcerra’s net operating loss and credit carryforwards, that were already partially limited due to a prior acquisition, will be subject to annual limitations as provided for in Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383.
These annual limitations will result in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of these carryforwards.
Uncertainties underlie Cohu’s expectation that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
Cohu believes that, relative to Cohu on a stand-alone basis, the Merger will be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share upon completion of the ongoing restructuring and integration.
However, Cohu cannot give any assurance that the Merger will actually be accretive to Cohu’s earnings per share.
In addition to the uncertainties that underlie any financial forecast, Cohu will account for the Merger as an acquisition under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” or “ASC 805”.
The total cost of the Merger will be allocated to the underlying identifiable net tangible and intangible assets and liabilities based on their respective estimated fair values.
Until these allocations are completed, Cohu can only estimate the allocation of the acquisition price to the net assets acquired and the effect of the allocation on future results.
That estimate could materially change.
The use of cash and incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the Merger may have an adverse impact on Cohu’s liquidity, limit Cohu’s flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase Cohu’s vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
The Merger was financed in part by using Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand and the incurrence of indebtedness.
In connection with the Merger, Cohu entered into a term loan facility, with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the “Debt Financing” or “Credit Agreement”).
Cohu used $160.5 million of Cohu’s and Xcerra’s cash on hand to complete the Merger.
Cohu’s (including Xcerra’s) cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of June 29, 2019 were approximately $143.6 million.
The use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition has reduced Cohu’s liquidity and could cause Cohu to place more reliance on cash generated from operations to pay principal and interest on Cohu’s debt, thereby reducing the availability of Cohu’s cash flow for working capital, dividend and capital expenditure needs or to pursue other potential strategic plans.
*    Our Credit Agreement contains various representations and negative covenants that limit, subject to certain exceptions and baskets, our ability and/or our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things:    



  ●   incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons;    



  ●   issue redeemable stock and preferred stock;    



  ●   pay cash dividends or make distributions on capital stock, repurchase, redeem or make payments on capital stock;    



  ●   make loans, investments or acquisitions;    



42 



Table of Contents  



  ●   enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries;    



  ●   create or permit restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us or to guarantee our debt, limit our or any of our subsidiaries’ ability to create liens, or that require the grant of a lien to secure an obligation if a lien is granted to secure another obligation;    



  ●   sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries;    



  ●   enter into certain transactions with affiliates;    



  ●   sell, transfer, license, lease or dispose of our or our subsidiaries’ assets; and    



  ●   dissolve, liquidate, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all the assets of us and our subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to, another person.
The restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement could adversely affect our ability to: 



  ●   finance our operations;    



  ●   make needed capital expenditures;    



  ●   make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances;    



  ●   withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general;    



  ●   engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest; and    



  ●   plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies.
A breach of any of these negative covenants could result in a default under the Credit Agreement.
Further, additional indebtedness that we incur in the future may subject us to further covenants.
Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the agreements governing the relevant indebtedness.
The lender may accelerate the payment terms of the Credit Agreement upon the occurrence of certain events of default set forth therein, which include: the failure of Cohu to make timely payments of amounts due under the Credit Agreement, the failure of Cohu to adhere to the representations and covenants set forth in the Credit Agreement, the failure to provide notice of any event that causes a material adverse effect or to provide other required notices, upon the event that related collateral agreements become ineffective, upon the event that certain legal judgments are entered against Cohu, the insolvency of Cohu, or upon the change of control of Cohu.
Even if we are able to comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to manage our business in our sole discretion could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that we believe would be beneficial to us.
In addition, our obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured, on a first-priority basis, and such security interests could be enforced in the event of default by the collateral agent for the Credit Agreement.
Because of high debt levels, Cohu has total consolidated long-term debt of $342 million, and may not be able to service its debt obligations in accordance with their terms; the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act severely limits the deductibility of interest expense.
Cohu’s ability to meet its expense and debt service obligations contained in the Debt Financing agreements will depend on Cohu’s future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of Cohu’s products and pressure from competitors.
In addition, Cohu is subject to interest rate risks, and continuing increases in interest rates will increase Cohu’s debt service obligations.
Should combined Cohu and Xcerra revenues decline after the Merger (as compared to last year), as they did in first quarter 2019 and are again forecasted to do so in second quarter 2019, Cohu may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay its debt service obligations when due.
If Cohu is unable to meet its debt service obligations after the Merger or should Cohu fail to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its indebtedness, Cohu may be required to refinance all or part of its debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue Cohu Common Stock or other equity securities.
Cohu may not be able to, at any given time, refinance its debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to Cohu, in amounts sufficient to meet Cohu’s needs or at all.
If Cohu is able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to Cohu’s stockholders.
Cohu’s inability to service its debt obligations or refinance its debt could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results after the Merger.
In addition, Cohu’s debt obligations may limit its ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial conditions or operating results.
This resulted in the inability of Cohu to utilize a substantial portion of its interest expense deductions in 2018 and may impact our ability to utilize future deductions.
However, the Act permits indefinite carryforward of any disallowed business interest, subject to Internal Revenue Code section 382 limitations on utilization.
The Merger was financed in part by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock to shareholders of Xcerra, comprised approximately 11.8 million shares of common stock, or approximately 29% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock immediately after completing the Merger.
These issuances of additional shares of our common stock have diluted shareholders’ ownership interest in our company, and shareholders now have a proportionately reduced ownership and voting interest in our company as a result of completion of the Merger.
Because a significant portion of Cohu’s total assets will be represented by goodwill, which is subject to mandatory impairment evaluation, and other intangibles, Cohu could be required to write-off some or all of this goodwill and other intangibles, which may adversely affect the combined company’s financial condition and results of operations.
Cohu has accounted for the acquisition of Xcerra using the purchase method of accounting.
A portion of the purchase price for this business was allocated to identifiable tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities based on estimated fair values at the date of consummation of the merger.
As a result of the Merger, 48.8% of Cohu’s total assets are comprised of goodwill and other intangibles, of which approximately $241.5 million is allocated to goodwill.
In accordance with ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, goodwill and certain other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications of impairment.
All other intangible assets are subject to periodic amortization.
Cohu evaluates the remaining useful lives of other intangibles each quarter to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization.
If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger, when Cohu performs future impairment tests, it is possible that the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets could exceed their implied fair value and therefore would require adjustment.
Such adjustment would result in a charge to operating income in that period.
Once adjusted, there can be no assurance that there will not be further adjustments for impairment in future periods.
If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, and current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting.
We are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to establish and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
We are likewise required, on a quarterly basis, to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and to disclose any changes and material weaknesses in those internal controls.
Completing the Merger has significantly increased the size, number of employees, global operations and complexity of Cohu’s business.
Although we believe that we have adequate internal controls in place at this time, we cannot be certain that, with significantly greater global complexity, we will be able to maintain adequate internal control over our financial reporting in future periods.
Any failure to maintain such internal controls could adversely impact our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis.
* Cohu may discover liabilities or deficiencies associated with Xcerra that were not identified in advance.
We may discover liabilities, product return issues or deficiencies associated with Xcerra that were not identified in advance, which may result in significant unanticipated costs, including potential accounting and tax charges.
The effectiveness of our due diligence review and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence are ultimately dependent upon the accuracy and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by Xcerra, as well as the limited amount of time in which the acquisition was executed.
For example, since closing the Merger, we have incurred material product returns and associated expenses and were required to make material customer pricing concessions in order to resolve various Xcerra product issues.
* Cohu cannot provide assurance that it will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate or at all.
Cohu stockholders may not receive the same or any dividends in the future for various reasons, including the following: 



  ●   as a result of the Merger and the issuance of shares of Cohu Common Stock in connection with the Merger, the total amount of cash required for Cohu to pay dividends at its current rate has increased;    



  ●   Cohu’s credit agreement restricts payments of dividends under certain circumstances;    



  ●   Cohu may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to Cohu’s operational cash requirements, capital spending plans, cash flow or financial position;    



  ●   rising interest rates, which increase Cohu’s debt service obligations;    



44 



Table of Contents  



  ●   Cohu may desire to retain cash to maintain or improve its credit ratings;    



  ●   difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    



 ● given weak market conditions that began in late 2018 and continuing to persist in 2019, and the associated business uncertainty, we may determine to take action to preserve cash;  



  ●   Cohu may reduce or eliminate its dividend in order to pay down debt;    



 ● decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Cohu Board, which reserves the right to change Cohu’s dividend practices at any time with no prior notice; and  



  ●   the amount of dividends that Cohu’s subsidiaries may distribute to Cohu may be subject to restrictions imposed by state or foreign law, restrictions that may be imposed by state or foreign regulators, and restrictions imposed by the terms of any current or future indebtedness that these subsidiaries may incur.
* We have elected to terminate Xcerra’s agreement with Spirox Corporation as a distributor in China and Taiwan.
If we are unable to adequately replace Spirox, or if its performance deteriorates during the transition period, it may adversely impact our business.
The Xcerra division has relied on Spirox Corporation (“Spirox”) as its primary distribution channel for sales and service in China and Taiwan for its Semiconductor Test Solutions products, a region that represents a material portion of Xcerra’s revenues.
Spirox has had direct contact with Xcerra’s customers, and Spirox has been obligated to satisfy all installation and service obligations for the Semiconductor Test Solutions products.
After a thorough review of this arrangement, on October 12, 2018, we notified Spirox of our intention to terminate the Spirox distribution agreement, and subsequently negotiated an accelerated wind-down and termination date of March 12, 2019.
Our business and financial performance within the China and Taiwan region may be negatively impacted if cooperation with Spirox during the transition fails, if Cohu is delayed and otherwise fails to timely and adequately staff and fund sales and service resources in the region to replace those resources that have previously been provided by Spirox, or if customers delay or fail, for any reason, to transition to direct sales with us.
Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: 



  ●   difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses;    



  ●   increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our business;    



  ●   the cost and risk of having to potentially develop new and unfamiliar sales channels for acquired businesses;    



  ●   diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters;    



  ●   the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of Cohu or acquired businesses;    



  ●   lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition;    



  ●   potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses;    



  ●   failure to commercialize purchased technology;    



  ●   the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods; and    



  ●   challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.
We may decide to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock.
At June 29, 2019, we had goodwill and net purchased intangible assets balances of $241.5 million and $297.2 million, respectively.
Given the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology environment in which we operate, we believe it is important to develop new product offerings to meet strategic opportunities as they evolve.
This includes developing products that we believe are necessary to meet the future needs of the marketplace.
We are currently investing in new product development programs to enable us to compete in the test contactor markets, while also investing in next generation test handlers and automated test equipment.
For example, our PANTHER wafer level package probe system has incurred significant development costs, but has not generated material revenues for us.
There can be no assurance that new products we develop will be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues for us.
45 



Table of Contents  



We are exposed to the risks of operating a global business.
Certain aspects inherent in transacting business internationally could negatively impact our operating results, including: 



  ●   costs and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    



  ●   legislative or regulatory requirements and potential changes in or interpretations of requirements in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    



  ●   trade restrictions, including treaty changes, sanctions and the suspension of export licenses;    



  ●   compliance with and changes in import/export tariffs and regulations;    



  ●   complex labor laws and privacy regulations;    



  ●   difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights;    



  ●   longer payment cycles;    



  ●   local political and economic conditions;    



  ●   complex tax laws and potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriating earnings and the threat of “double taxation;” and    



  ●   fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar, which can affect demand for our products and increase our costs.
Additionally, managing geographically dispersed operations presents difficult challenges associated with organizational alignment and infrastructure, communications and information technology, inventory control, customer relationship management, terrorist threats and related security matters and cultural diversities.
We have manufacturing operations in Asia.
Any failure to effectively manage multiple manufacturing sites and to secure raw materials meeting our quality, cost and other requirements, or failures by our suppliers to perform, could harm our sales, service levels and reputation.
Our reliance on overseas manufacturers exposes us to significant risks including complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to address quickly and adequately.
In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify overseas supplier relationships.
Also, the addition of overseas manufacturing locations increases the demands on our administrative and operations infrastructure and the complexity of our supply chain management.
If our overseas manufacturing locations are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially affected.
They may also be impacted by possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, increasing costs of raw materials, labor and distribution, resulting in demands for less attractive contract terms or an inability for them to meet our requirements or conduct their own businesses.
Failure of critical suppliers to deliver sufficient quantities of parts in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely impact our operations.
We use numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies for the manufacture of our products.
It is not always possible to maintain multiple qualified suppliers for all of our parts, components and subassemblies.
As a result, many key parts may be available only from a single supplier (“sole source”) or a limited number of suppliers.
In addition, suppliers may significantly raise prices or cease manufacturing certain components (with or without advance notice to us) that are difficult to replace without significant reengineering of our products.
On occasion, we have experienced problems in obtaining adequate and reliable quantities of various parts and components from certain key or sole source suppliers.
46 



Table of Contents  



* The semiconductor industry we serve is seasonal, volatile and unpredictable.
Visibility into our markets is limited.
The semiconductor equipment business is highly dependent on the overall strength of the semiconductor industry.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been seasonal with recurring periods of oversupply and excess capacity, which often have had a significant effect on the semiconductor industry’s demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
We anticipate that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors and semiconductor equipment will also be subject to similar cycles and severe downturns.
In addition, the seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of semiconductor equipment demand has in the past and may in the future expose us to significant excess and obsolete and lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-offs and reserve requirements.
In 2018, 2017 and 2016, we recorded pre-tax inventory-related charges of approximately $1.4 million, $1.1 million, and $1.1 million, respectively, primarily as a result of changes in customer forecasts.
More recently, in the second half of 2018 and continuing into 2019, we have seen significantly weakened demand in mobility and consumer market segments, and overall geographic weakness in China and Taiwan.
Such adverse trends have materially impacted all of our business areas, including the businesses conducted by Xcerra.
Finally, in 2018 we incurred $19.1 million of inventory charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerra’s semiconductor test handler products, and these charges may be insufficient as market conditions and demand changes.
Our business requires capital to finance accounts receivable and product inventory that is not financed by trade creditors when our business is expanding.
If cash from available sources is insufficient or cash is used for unanticipated needs, we may require additional capital sooner than anticipated.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, including cash resources and cash provided by operating activities will provide sufficient resources to meet our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next twelve months.
Further, under our Credit Agreement, we are significantly limited by financial and other negative covenants in our credit arrangements, including limitations on our borrowing of additional funds and issuing dividends.
If we choose to issue new equity securities, existing stockholders may experience dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock.
* The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive.
The semiconductor equipment industry is intensely competitive and we face substantial competition from numerous companies throughout the world.
The test handler industry, while relatively small in terms of worldwide market size compared to other segments of the semiconductor equipment industry, has several participants resulting in intense competitive pricing pressures.
Future competition may include companies that do not currently supply test handlers.
Some of our competitors are part of larger corporations that have substantially greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities and provide more extensive product offerings.
We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and introduce new products with improved performance capabilities.
Intense competition has adversely impacted our product average selling prices and gross margins on certain products.
We have increased investments in our test contactor business, and announced significant growth targets for the business over the next several years, but due to ongoing weak market conditions we have not achieved our growth goals in 2019, year-to-date.
The test contactor market is fragmented, with many entrenched regional players, and subject to intense price competition and high customer support requirements.
We believe that customer support and responsiveness and an ability to consistently meet tight deadlines is critical to our success.
47 



Table of Contents  



In addition, with the Xcerra acquisition, Cohu has entered the automated test equipment (“ATE”) market.
Our ability to increase our ATE sales will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain orders from new customers.
Semiconductor and electronics manufacturers typically select a particular vendor’s product for testing new generations of a device and make substantial investments to develop related test program applications and interfaces.
Once a manufacturer has selected an ATE vendor for a new generation of a device, that manufacturer is more likely to purchase systems from that vendor for that generation of the device, and, possibly, subsequent generations of that device as well.
Further, Cohu has a niche position and relatively low share in the ATE market, and this market is primarily driven by two larger companies with significantly more resources to invest into the ATE market.
Semiconductor equipment and processes are subject to rapid technological change.
We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance existing products and develop new products with improved performance capabilities.
This exposure resulted in charges to operations during each of the years in the three-year period ended December 29, 2018.
The design, development, commercial introduction and manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is an inherently complex process that involves a number of risks and uncertainties.
The design and development of new semiconductor equipment is heavily influenced by changes in integrated circuit assembly, test and final manufacturing processes and integrated circuit package design changes.
We believe that the rate of change in such processes and integrated circuit packages is accelerating.
As a result of these changes and other factors, assessing the market potential and commercial viability of handling, ATE, MEMS, system-level and burn-in test equipment and test contactors is extremely difficult and subject to a great deal of risk.
In addition, not all integrated circuit manufacturers employ the same manufacturing processes.
Differences in such processes make it difficult to design standard test products that can achieve broad market acceptance.
As a result, we might not accurately assess the semiconductor industry’s future equipment requirements and fail to design and develop products that meet such requirements and achieve market acceptance.
The transition from product development to the manufacture of new semiconductor equipment is a difficult process and delays in product introductions and problems in manufacturing such equipment are common.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties in manufacturing and volume production of our new equipment.
In addition, as is common with semiconductor equipment, after sale support and warranty costs have typically been significantly higher with new products than with our established products.
Furthermore, we might not realize acceptable profit margins on such products.
Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services.
While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions deteriorate, we may experience increased collection times and greater write-offs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow.
In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell.
Possible import, export, tariff and other trade barriers, which could be imposed by Asia, the United States, other countries or the European Union might also have a material adverse effect on our operating results.
We cannot predict the timing, duration of or effect on our business of an economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery.
48 



Table of Contents  



A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of our net sales.
A small number of customers have been responsible for a significant portion of our net sales.
During the past five years, the percentage of our sales derived from these significant customers has varied greatly.
It is common in the semiconductor equipment industry for customers to purchase products from more than one equipment supplier, increasing the risk that our competitive position with a specific customer may deteriorate.
No assurance can be given that we will continue to maintain our competitive position with these or other significant customers.
Furthermore, we expect the percentage of our revenues derived from significant customers will vary greatly in future periods.
If we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market products and services that meet customer requirements for innovation and quality, our revenue and gross margin may suffer.
In addition, in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products.
To address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the cause of quality problems and appropriate solutions.
Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits.
* The seasonal nature of the semiconductor equipment industry places enormous demands on our employees, operations and infrastructure.
The semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by dramatic and sometimes rapid changes in demand for its products.
These are generally dictated by introduction of new consumer products, launch of new model vehicles, implementation of new communications infrastructure, or in response to an increase in industrial equipment and machinery that utilizes semiconductors.
Sudden changes in demand for semiconductor equipment commonly occur, and have a significant impact on our operations.
We have in the past and may in the future experience difficulties, particularly in manufacturing, in training and recruiting the large number of additions to our workforce.
The volatility in headcount and business levels, combined with the seasonal nature of the semiconductor industry, may require that we invest substantial amounts in new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls.
We may not be able to successfully adjust our systems, facilities and production capacity to meet our customers’ changing requirements.
For example, in the second half of 2018 and first half of 2019, we have seen significant weakening demand in mobility and consumer market segments, and overall geographic weakness in China and Taiwan.
The loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business.
Certain key personnel are critical to our business.
Our future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of our key personnel, many of whom are not bound by employment or non-competition agreements.
Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel.
Competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with technical skills, is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel.
In addition, the cost of living in the San Diego and Bay Area, California, Boston, Massachusetts, Rosenheim and Kolbermoor, Germany, La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland and Osaka, Japan areas, where the majority of our engineering personnel are located, is high and we have had difficulty in recruiting prospective employees from other locations.
There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills and relevant industry experience to serve in these positions and it may become increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time.
In addition, from time-to-time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent or copyright claims.
A majority of our revenues are generated from exports to foreign countries, primarily in Asia, that are subject to economic and political instability and we compete against a number of Asian test handling equipment suppliers.
The majority of our export sales are made to destinations in Asia.
Political or economic instability, particularly in Asia, may adversely impact the demand for capital equipment, including equipment of the type we manufacture and market.
In addition, we face intense competition from a number of Asian suppliers that have certain advantages over United States (“U.S.”) suppliers, including us.
These advantages include, among other things, proximity to customers, lower cost structures, favorable tariffs and affiliation with significantly larger organizations.
In addition, changes in the amount or price of semiconductors produced in Asia could impact the profitability or capital equipment spending programs of our foreign and domestic customers.
An unanticipated, unfavorable outcome in any specific period could harm our operating results for that period or future periods.
The financial cost and management attention and time devoted to defending income tax positions may divert resources from our business operations, which could harm our business and profitability.
In particular, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets and the utilization of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards are dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. and other countries.
Furthermore, these carryforwards may be subject to annual limitations as a result of changes in Cohu’s ownership.
As a result of the acquisition of Xcerra, a greater than 50% cumulative ownership change in Xcerra triggered a significant limitation in the utilization of their net operating loss and research credit carryforwards.
Cohu’s ability to use the acquired Xcerra U.S. net operating loss and credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations as defined in sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code.
On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”) was signed into law in the United States.
The changes in the Tax Act are broad and complex and we continue to examine the impact the Tax Act may have on our business and financial results.
In accordance with applicable SEC guidance (SAB 118), we recorded provisional amounts as of December 30, 2017, however, these provisional amounts were subject to change in 2018, due to, among other things, changes in estimates, interpretations and assumptions we have made, changes in Internal Revenue Service (IRS) interpretations, the issuance of new guidance, legislative actions, changes in accounting standards or related interpretations in response to the Tax Act and future actions by states within the United States that have not currently adopted the Tax Act.
During 2018 we completed the accounting for the effects of the Tax Act and recorded an increase in our transition tax liability of approximately $5.1 million that was fully offset by the use of net operating loss carryforwards resulting in no net increase in tax expense.
We must continue to address new regulations and interpretations of the Tax Act as they are issued.
50 



Table of Contents  



Compliance with regulations may impact sales to foreign customers and impose costs.
Certain products and services that we offer require compliance with U.S. and other foreign country export and other regulations.
Compliance with complex U.S. and other foreign country laws and regulations that apply to our international sales activities increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could expose us or our employees to fines and penalties.
These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, the U.S. State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) and U.S. and other foreign country laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials.
Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies, or that our policies will be effective in preventing all potential violations.
In addition to government regulations regarding sale and export, we are subject to other regulations regarding our products.
For example, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements if the materials come from, or could have come from, the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries.
These new rules and verification requirements will impose additional costs on us and on our suppliers, and may limit the sources or increase the cost of materials used in our products.
There may be changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and governmental policy in the United States.
The change in administration in the United States has resulted and may continue to result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy.
While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such additional changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level could impact fuel cell market adoption in the U.S. and the alternative energy technologies sector in the U.S., generally.
Specific legislative and regulatory proposals that could have a material impact on us include, but are not limited to, infrastructure renewal programs; and modifications to international trade policy, such as approvals by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States; increased duties, tariffs or other restrictions; public company reporting requirements; environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement.
In the first six months of fiscal year 2019, 88% of our revenue was from products shipped to customer locations outside the United States.
We also purchase a significant portion of components and subassemblies from suppliers outside the United States.
Additionally, a significant portion of our facilities are located outside the United States, including Malaysia, Germany, China and Japan.
General trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating since 2018, with U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods and retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods.
Higher duties on existing tariffs and further rounds of tariffs have been announced or repeatedly threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders.
Additionally, the U.S. has threatened to impose tariffs on goods imported from other countries, which could also impact our or certain of our customers' operations.
If the U.S. were to impose current or additional tariffs on components that we or our suppliers source, our cost for such components would increase.
We may also incur increases in manufacturing costs and supply chain risks due to our efforts to mitigate the impact of tariffs on our customers and our operations.
We cannot predict what further actions may ultimately be taken with respect to tariffs or trade relations between the U.S. and other countries, what products may be subject to such actions, or what actions may be taken by other countries in retaliation.
Further changes in trade policy, tariffs, additional taxes, restrictions on exports or other trade barriers, or restrictions on supplies, equipment, and raw materials including rare earth minerals, may limit our ability to produce products, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary components and subassemblies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition.
Furthermore, On May 16, 2019, the Bureau of Industry and Security ("BIS") of the U.S. Department of Commerce added Huawei to the BIS's Entity List, which imposes limitations on the supply of certain U.S. items and product support to Huawei.
Although our sales to Huawei are immaterial, to ensure compliance with the Entity List restrictions, we suspended shipments of all products to Huawei, effective May 16, 2019.
We then reviewed our product portfolio to determine whether our products and related support are subject to the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR"), and therefore within the scope of the Entity List restrictions.
We have determined that certain products Huawei purchases from us are not subject to the EAR and consequently can be lawfully sold and shipped to Huawei.
Accordingly, we have recently resumed shipping certain products to Huawei.
51 



Table of Contents  



While Huawei remains on the Entity List, and in the absence of a license from the BIS, we may be unable to work with Huawei on future product development, which may have a negative effect on our ability to sell products to Huawei in the future.
Entity List restrictions may also encourage Huawei to seek to obtain a greater supply of similar or substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions, thereby decreasing our long-term competitiveness as a supplier to Huawei.
We believe that the Entity List trade restrictions enacted during second quarter 2019 had an adverse effect on our business in that most of our customers’ businesses were disrupted as semiconductor companies evaluated the trade restrictions.
We are unable to predict the duration of the export restrictions imposed with respect to Huawei or the long-term effects on our business.
Additionally, other companies may be added to the Entity List and/or subject to trade restrictions.
Our business and operations could suffer in the event of cybersecurity breaches.
Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful.
These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others.
We seek to detect and investigate all cybersecurity incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects.
To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of our customers' or licensees' confidential information, we may incur liability as a result.
In addition, we may be required to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems.
Our global Enterprise Resource Management (“ERP”) upgrade may adversely affect our business and results of operations or the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
We are in development stage for the global replacement of our existing ERP solution.
The new solution is being developed as an enterprise solution in partnership with a leading provider of ERP tools.
Additional investments in enterprise tools that focus on product life-cycle management, our customer experience, and supply chain management are in process to support our growing business.
These implementations are extremely complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on software and implementation activities.
If we do not effectively implement the system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could result in the loss or corruption of data, delayed order processing and shipments and increased costs.
The occurrence of natural disasters and geopolitical instability caused by terrorist attacks and other threats may adversely impact our operations and sales.
Our corporate headquarters is located in San Diego, California, our Asian sales and service headquarters is located in Singapore and the majority of our sales are made to destinations in Asia.
In addition, we have Asia-based manufacturing plants in Malaysia, Philippines and Japan.
These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, fires and floods, and geopolitical risks, which at times have disrupted the local economies.
For example, a significant earthquake or tsunami could materially affect operating results.
In the event of such disaster, our business would materially suffer.
Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to: 



  ●   seasonal, volatile and unpredictable nature of the semiconductor equipment industry;    



  ●   timing and amount of orders from customers and shipments to customers;    



  ●   customer decisions to cancel orders or push out deliveries;    



  ●   inability to recognize revenue due to accounting requirements;    



  ●   inventory writedowns;    



  ●   unexpected expenses or cost overruns in the introduction and support of products;    



  ●   inability to deliver solutions as expected by our customers; and    



  ●   intangible and deferred tax asset writedowns.
The stock market in general, and the market for shares of high-technology companies in particular, including ours, have experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies.
53 



Table of Contents  



Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
None.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 



Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
54 



Table of Contents  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



55 



Table of Contents  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



56
