Item 2.
Risk Factors”.
The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the time they are made, and do not necessarily reflect management’s outlook at any other point in time.
The level of capital expenditures by these companies depends on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductor devices and PCBs and the products that incorporate them.
For the nine months ended September 28, 2019, our net sales increased 57% year-over-year to $441.3 million.
The increase in our net sales was driven by the acquisition of Xcerra Corporation, completed on October 1, 2018, and our results in the first nine months of 2019 included sales of $238.9 million contributed by this acquired business.
The global semiconductor market grew in 2018 reaching a peak in the second quarter with business conditions softening during the second half of 2018.
This weakness has continued through the first nine months of 2019 and customer test cell utilization remains below levels that have historically triggered the need for additional capacity.
The current near-term outlook for the semiconductor industry for the remainder of 2019 assumes slower electronic equipment demand and slower growth for the global economy.
Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved.
We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies; however, these policies typically do not require us to make estimates or judgments that are difficult or subjective.
We recognize revenue when the obligations under the terms of a contract with our customers are satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of our systems, non-system products or services.
In circumstances where control is not transferred until destination or acceptance, we defer revenue recognition until such events occur.
Revenue for established products that have previously satisfied a customer’s acceptance requirements is generally recognized upon shipment.
In cases where a prior history of customer acceptance cannot be demonstrated or from sales where customer payment dates are not determinable and in the case of new products, revenue and cost of sales are deferred until customer acceptance has been received.
Our post-shipment obligations typically include installation and standard warranties.
The estimated fair value of installation related revenue is recognized in the period the installation is performed.
Service revenue is recognized over time as the transfer of control is completed for the related contract or upon completion of the services if they are short-term in nature.
Spares, contactor and kit revenue is generally recognized upon shipment.
Certain of our equipment sales have multiple performance obligations.
These arrangements involve the delivery or performance of multiple performance obligations, and transfer of control of performance obligations may occur at different points in time or over different periods of time.
For arrangements containing multiple performance obligations, the revenue relating to the undelivered performance obligation is deferred using the relative standalone selling price method utilizing estimated sales prices until satisfaction of the deferred performance obligation.
Unsatisfied performance obligations primarily represent contracts for products with future delivery dates.
At September 28, 2019, we have $12.2 million of revenue expected to be recognized in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) for contracts with original expected durations of over one year.
As allowed under ASC 606, we have opted to not disclose unsatisfied performance obligations as these contracts have original expected durations of less than one year.
We generally sell our equipment with a product warranty.
The product warranty provides assurance to customers that delivered products are as specified in the contract (an “assurance-type warranty”).
Therefore, we account for such product warranties under ASC 460, Guarantees (ASC 460), and not as a separate performance obligation.
The transaction price reflects our expectations about the consideration we will be entitled to receive from the customer and may include fixed or variable amounts.
Fixed consideration primarily includes sales to customers that are known as of the end of the reporting period.
Variable consideration includes sales in which the amount of consideration that we will receive is unknown as of the end of a reporting period.
Such consideration primarily includes sales made to certain customers with cumulative tier volume discounts offered.
Variable consideration arrangements are rare; however, when they occur, we estimate variable consideration as the expected value to which we expect to be entitled.
Included in the transaction price estimate are amounts in which it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
The estimate is based on information available for projected future sales.
Variable consideration that does not meet revenue recognition criteria is deferred.
Accounts receivable represents our unconditional right to receive consideration from our customer.
Payments terms do not exceed one year from the invoice date and therefore do not include a significant financing component.
To date, there have been no material impairment losses on accounts receivable.
There were no material contract assets or contract liabilities recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet in any of the periods presented.
33 



Table of Contents  



Cohu, Inc.



 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



 September 28, 2019 



Accounts Receivable: We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments.
Inventory: The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate obsolete or excess inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality.
The demand forecast is a direct input in the development of our short-term manufacturing plans.
The deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Establishing, reducing or increasing a valuation allowance in an accounting period generally results in an increase or decrease in tax expense in the statement of operations.
Our gross deferred tax asset balance as of September 28, 2019, was approximately $132.8 million, with a valuation allowance of approximately $93.5 million.
Segment Information: We applied the provisions of ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting, (“ASC 280”), which sets forth a management approach to segment reporting and establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures about products, major customers and the geographies in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue.
An operating segment is defined as a component that engages in business activities whose operating results are reviewed by the chief operating decision maker and for which discrete financial information is available.
After the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, we have determined that our four identified operating segments are: Test Handler Group (“THG”), Semiconductor Test Group (“STG”), Interface Solutions Group (“ISG”) and PCB Test Group (“PTG”).
Our THG, STG and ISG operating segments qualify for aggregation under ASC 280 due to similarities in their customers, their economic characteristics, and the nature of products and services provided.
As a result, we report in two segments, Semiconductor Test & Inspection and PCB Test.
Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets: We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
We test goodwill for impairment by comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units.
If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, an impairment charge is recognized as the amount by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
We estimated the fair values of our reporting units primarily using the income approach valuation methodology that includes the discounted cash flow method, taking into consideration the market approach and certain market multiples as a validation of the values derived using the discounted cash flow methodology.
Other events and changes in circumstances may also require goodwill to be tested for impairment between annual measurement dates.
As of September 28, 2019, we do not believe that circumstances have occurred that indicate impairment of our goodwill is more-likely-than-not.
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable.
For long-lived assets, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows.
We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value.
34 



Table of Contents  



Cohu, Inc.



 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



 September 28, 2019 



Warranty: We provide for the estimated costs of product warranties in the period sales are recognized.
Should product performance, material usage or labor repair costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required.
Share-based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock unit awards is calculated based on the market price of our common stock on the grant date, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on our common stock prior to vesting of the restricted stock unit.
Share-based compensation on performance stock units with market-based goals is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model on the date of the grant.
Share-based compensation expense related to stock options is recorded based on the fair value of the award on its grant date, which we estimate using the Black-Scholes valuation model.
Management has determined that the fixtures services business, that was acquired as part of Xcerra, does not align with Cohu’s long-term strategic plan and management is in the process of divesting this portion of the business.
Unless otherwise indicated, the discussion below covers the comparative results from continuing operations.
The following table summarizes certain operating data as a percentage of net sales: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Third Quarter of Fiscal 2019 Compared to Third Quarter of Fiscal 2018 



Net Sales 



Our consolidated net sales increased 66.5% to $143.5 million in 2019, compared to $86.2 million in 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Xcerra and our net sales for the third fiscal quarter of 2019 include $81.3 million of net sales recognized by this business and is the driver of the increase in our net sales.
35 



Table of Contents  



Cohu, Inc.



 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



 September 28, 2019 



Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) 



Gross margin consists of net sales less cost of sales.
Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, was 41.1% in 2019 and 40.6% in 2018.
As discussed above certain items which have historically affected gross margin are now being reflected in operating expenses.
Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current period presentation.
This resulted in expenses totaling $7.6 million and $0.6 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than cost of sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Independent of the impact of the financial statement reclassifications gross margin in 2019 was impacted by the acquisition of Xcerra as discussed below.
We compute the majority of our excess and obsolete inventory reserve requirements using a one-year inventory usage forecast.
During the third quarter of 2019 and 2018, we recorded charges to cost of sales of $1.5 million and $0.7 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively.
Additionally, as part of the integration and restructuring activities related to Xcerra we recorded $19.1 million of inventory related charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerra’s semiconductor test handler products in the fourth quarter of 2018 which included amounts associated with non-cancelable supplier commitments.
R&D expense was $20.5 million in 2019 and $11.1 million in 2018 representing 14.3% and 12.9% of net sales, respectively.
The increase in R&D expense in 2019 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Xcerra, which added research and development expenses totaling $10.5 million.
SG&A expense was $33.7 million or 23.5% of net sales in 2019, compared to $15.9 million or 18.5% in 2018.
The increase in SG&A expense in 2019 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Xcerra, which added expenses totaling $20.0 million from its operations.
The increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales is primarily a result of application engineering costs associated with Xcerra’s semiconductor automated test equipment.
As discussed above, certain items which have historically affected SG&A have been reclassified to amortization of purchased intangibles and foreign transaction gain (loss) and other.
Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current year presentation.
This resulted in expenses totaling $2.4 million and $0.4 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than SG&A in the third quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Additionally, foreign currency transaction gains totaling $1.6 million and losses totaling $0.2 million recognized in the third quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively, are now reported in foreign transaction gain (loss) and other.
SG&A expenses unrelated to Xcerra’s operations were lower due to the decrease in business volume.
Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets 



Amortization of purchased intangibles is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset acquired through a business combination over the projected life of the asset.
As discussed above these amounts were previously recorded in cost of sales and SG&A.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $10.0 million and $1.0 million in the third quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in expense recorded during the current year was primarily due to additional amortization associated with purchased intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition of Xcerra.
36 



Table of Contents  



Cohu, Inc.



 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



 September 28, 2019 



See Note 2, “Business Acquisitions, Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to intangible assets.
Restructuring Charges 



Subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during fourth quarter 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra and recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the inventory related amounts described above, totaling $0.8 million in the third fiscal quarter of 2019.
See Note 4, “Restructuring Charges” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges.
Interest Expense and Income 



Interest expense was $5.0 million in the third fiscal quarter of 2019 as compared to $11,000 in the corresponding period of 2018.
The increase was driven primarily by interest associated with the Term B Loan obtained to finance part of the purchase price of Xcerra.
Interest income was $0.2 million and $0.3 million in the third fiscal quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
However, when a reliable estimate of the annual ETR cannot be made, the actual ETR for the year-to-date period may be the best estimate of the annual ETR.
In computing the tax provision for the three months ended September 29, 2018 we used the ETR expected to be applicable for the full fiscal year.
The ETR on income or loss from continuing operations for the three months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, was (13.9)% and 32.4%, respectively.
Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income 



As a result of the factors set forth above, both loss from continuing operations and net loss was $10.5 million in 2019.
Both income from continuing operations and net income was $4.8 million in 2018.
First Nine Months of Fiscal 2019 Compared to First Nine Months of Fiscal 2018 



Net Sales 



Our consolidated net sales increased 57.0% to $441.3 million in 2019, compared to $281.1 million in 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Xcerra and our net sales for the first nine months of 2019 include $238.9 million of net sales recognized by this business and is the driver of the increase in our net sales.
Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) 



Our gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to 39.8% in 2019 from 41.8% in 2018.
As discussed above certain items which have historically affected gross margin are now being reflected in operating expenses.
Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current period presentation.
This resulted in expenses totaling $22.9 million and $2.0 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than cost of sales in 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Independent of the impact of the financial statement reclassifications gross margin in 2019 was impacted by the acquisition of Xcerra as discussed below.
37 



Table of Contents  



Cohu, Inc.



 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



 September 28, 2019 



Our cost of sales was impacted by the amortization of inventory step-up related to fair value adjustments to inventory acquired in business combinations.
During the first nine months of 2019, we amortized $6.0 million of inventory step-up related to our acquisition of Xcerra.
There was no inventory step-up amortized in the corresponding period of 2018.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018 we recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $3.2 million and $1.3 million for excess and obsolete inventory, respectively.
Additionally, as part of the integration and restructuring activities related to Xcerra we recorded $19.1 million of inventory related charges related to the decision to end manufacturing of certain of Xcerra’s semiconductor test handler products in the fourth quarter of 2018 which included amounts associated with non-cancelable supplier commitments.
R&D Expense 



R&D expense was $65.3 million or 14.8% of net sales in 2019, compared to $33.9 million or 12.1% in 2018.
The increase in R&D expense in 2019 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Xcerra, which added research and development expenses totaling $34.1 million.
SG&A Expense 



SG&A expense was $108.4 million or 24.6% of net sales in 2019, compared to $51.0 million or 18.1% in 2018.
The increase in SG&A expense in 2019 was primarily associated with the acquisition of Xcerra, which added expenses totaling $66.0 million from its operations.
The increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales is primarily a result of application engineering costs associated with Xcerra’s semiconductor automated test equipment.
As discussed above, certain items which have historically affected SG&A have been reclassified to amortization of purchased intangibles and foreign transaction gain (loss) and other.
Previously reported amounts were also adjusted to reflect current year presentation.
This resulted in expenses totaling $7.1 million and $1.2 million being reported in amortization of intangibles rather than SG&A in the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Additionally, foreign currency transaction gains totaling $1.3 million and $1.2 million recognized in the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, are now reported in foreign transaction gain (loss) and other.
SG&A expenses unrelated to Xcerra’s operations were lower due to the decrease in business volume.
Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets 



Amortization of purchased intangibles is the process of expensing the cost of an intangible asset acquired through a business combination over the projected life of the asset.
As discussed above these amounts were previously recorded in cost of sales and SG&A.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $30.0 million and $3.1 million for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in expense recorded during the current year was primarily due to additional amortization associated with purchased intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition of Xcerra.
See Note 2, “Business Acquisitions, Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to intangible assets.
Restructuring Charges 



Subsequent to the acquisition of Xcerra on October 1, 2018, during fourth quarter 2018, we began a strategic restructuring program designed to reposition our organization and improve our cost structure as part of our targeted integration plan regarding Xcerra and recorded restructuring charges, exclusive of the inventory related amounts described above, totaling $10.7 million in the first nine months of 2019.
See Note 4, “Restructuring Charges” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to restructuring charges.
Interest Expense and Income 



Interest expense was $15.8 million in the first nine months of 2019 as compared to $33,000 in the corresponding period of 2018.
The increase was driven primarily by interest associated with the Term B Loan obtained to finance part of the purchase price of Xcerra.
38 



Table of Contents  



Cohu, Inc.



 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



 September 28, 2019 



Interest income was $0.6 million and $0.9 million in the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Income Taxes 



The ETR on income or loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018, was (0.3)% and 21.9%, respectively.
There was no material change to our unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest and penalties during the nine-month periods ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018.
Income from Continuing Operations and Net Income 



As a result of the factors set forth above, our loss from continuing operations and net loss was $52.7 million and $52.4 million in 2019, respectively, as compared to income from continuing operations and net income of $24.6 million in 2018.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 



Our primary business is dependent on capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers and test subcontractors that are, in turn, dependent on the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors.
Our primary historical source of liquidity and capital resources has been cash flow generated by our operations and we manage our businesses to maximize operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity.
We use cash to fund growth in our operating assets and to fund new products and product enhancements primarily through research and development.
As of September 28, 2019, $82.5 million or 56.6% of our cash and cash equivalents was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
On October 1, 2018, we entered into a bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility and borrowed the full amount.
The Term B Loan facility matures on October 1, 2025.
These proceeds were used on October 1, 2018, together with our cash and cash equivalents and newly issued Cohu common stock, to finance the acquisition of Xcerra.
See Note 3 “Borrowings and Credit Agreements” included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
At September 28, 2019, our total indebtedness, net of discount and deferred financing costs, was $351.3 million, which included $338.8 million outstanding under the Term B Loan, $4.0 million outstanding under Kita’s term loans, $3.7 million outstanding under Rasco’s term loan, $3.3 million outstanding under Kita’s lines of credit, and $1.5 million outstanding under Xcerra’s term loan.
Liquidity 



Working Capital: The following summarizes our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and working capital: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cash Flows 



Operating Activities: Operating cash flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 consisted of our net loss, adjusted for non-cash expenses and changes in operating assets and liabilities.
These adjustments include depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, deferred income taxes, consideration and amortization of inventory step-up and inventory related charges related to Xcerra.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Xcerra, our net cash provided by operating activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 totaled $3.4 million.
Net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by changes in current assets and liabilities and included decreases in accounts receivable of $21.8 million, accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities of $8.8 million, other current assets $7.3 million, income taxes payable of $3.7 million and accounts payable $2.8 million and an increase in deferred profit of $1.1 million.
The decrease in accrued compensation, warranty and other liabilities resulted from cash paid for 2018 incentive compensation paid in 2019 and decreased accruals for warranty due to current business conditions.
Other current assets decreased due to the amortization of payments made for insurance and software licenses and other services that are being utilized over the next twelve months and accounts payable decreased as a result of the timing of cash payments made to our vendors and suppliers Deferred profit increased as a result of deferrals of revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy.
39 



Table of Contents  



Cohu, Inc.



 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



 September 28, 2019 



Investing Activities: Investing cash flows consist primarily of cash used for capital expenditures in support of our businesses, proceeds from investment maturities, asset disposals and cash used for purchases of investments and business acquisitions.
Net cash used in investing activities in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 totaled $11.8 million.
Additions to property, plant and equipment of $13.3 million were made to support the operating and development activities of our business.
Financing Activities: Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our stock option and employee stock purchase plans and cash used to pay dividends to our stockholders, net of repayments of debt.
We issue restricted stock units and stock options and maintain an employee stock purchase plan as components of our overall employee compensation.
In the first nine months of fiscal 2019, cash used to settle the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements on behalf of our employees upon vesting of restricted and performance stock awards, net of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options was $1.2 million.
We paid dividends totaling $7.4 million, or $0.18 per common share and on August 1, 2019, Cohu’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share payable on October 18, 2019, to shareholders of record on August 23, 2019.
Future quarterly dividends are subject to our cash liquidity, capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.
Total repayments of short-term borrowings and long-term debt during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 totaled $3.6 million.
Cash flows from financing were also impacted by borrowings of $3.7 million under the Rasco Term Loan.
Capital Resources 



In addition to the bank credit agreement which provides for a $350.0 million seven-year Term B Loan facility as described above, we have access to other credit facilities to finance our operations if needed.
As a result of our acquisition of Xcerra, we assumed a term loan related to the purchase of Xcerra’s facility in Rosenheim, Germany.
The loan is payable over 10 years at an annual interest rate of 2.35%.
Principal plus accrued interest is due quarterly over the duration of the term loan.
At September 28, 2019, the outstanding loan balance was $1.5 million and $0.3 million of the outstanding balance is presented as current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The term loan is denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates.
In connection with the acquisition of Kita on January 4, 2017, we assumed a series of revolving credit agreements with various financial institutions in Japan.
The credit facilities renew monthly and provide Kita with access to working capital totaling up to $8.9 million.
At September 28, 2019, total borrowings outstanding under the revolving lines of credit were $3.3 million.
As these credit facility agreements renew monthly, they have been included in short-term borrowings in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
We also have long-term term loans from a series of Japanese financial institutions totaling $4.0 million primarily related to the expansion of Kita’s facility in Osaka, Japan.
The loans are collateralized by the facility and land.
The loans carry interest rates ranging from 0.05% to 0.44% and expire at various dates through 2034.
At September 28, 2019, $0.5 million of the term loans have been included in current installments of long-term debt in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The revolving lines of credit and term loans are denominated in Japanese Yen and, as a result, amounts will fluctuate as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.
On July 26, 2019, our wholly owned subsidiary Rasco GmbH entered into a term loan agreement with a financial institution that provides it with €3.4 million (Euro) that is being used to finance the expansion of our facility in Kolbermoor, Germany.
The facility expansion project will allow us to combine the operations of multiple subsidiaries in one location as part of our strategic restructuring program.
The loan is secured by the land and the existing building on the site.
Interest on the loan is payable quarterly and is fixed for 10 years at an annual interest rate of 0.8%.
Principal repayments will be made over 8 years starting at the end of 2021.
Only interest will be due each quarter starting in September 2019 and principal plus accrued interest will be due each quarter starting at the end of December, 2021.
At September 28, 2019, the outstanding loan balance was $3.7 million with none of the outstanding balance being presented as current installments of long-term debt in our consolidated balance sheets based on contractual due dates.
The term loan is denominated in Euros and, as a result, amounts disclosed herein will fluctuate because of changes in currency exchange rates.
40 



Table of Contents  



Cohu, Inc.



 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



 September 28, 2019 



We also have a credit agreement with a financial institution under which it administers a line of credit on behalf of our wholly owned Ismeca subsidiary.
The agreement provides Ismeca with 2.0 million Swiss Francs of available credit and at September 28, 2019, no amounts were outstanding.
We have a letter of credit facility (the “LC Facility”) under which Bank of America, N.A., has agreed to administer the issuance of letters of credit on our behalf.
The LC Facility requires us to maintain deposits of cash or other approved investments in amounts that approximate our outstanding letters of credit and contains customary restrictive covenants.
In addition, our wholly owned subsidiary, Xcerra, has arrangements with various financial institutions for the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees.
As of September 28, 2019, $1.3 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit and bank guarantees.
Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



Contractual Obligations: Our significant contractual obligations consist of liabilities for debt, operating leases, unrecognized tax benefits, pensions, post-retirement benefits and warranties.
Other than changes related to adoption of new lease accounting standards as described in Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there were no material changes to these obligations outside the ordinary course of business from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2018.
Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers: From time to time, we enter into commitments with our vendors and outsourcing partners to purchase inventory at fixed prices or in guaranteed quantities.
We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: During the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit instruments to certain parties as required.
As of September 28, 2019, $1.1 million was outstanding under standby letters of credit.
