Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
Investment and Interest Rate Risk.
At September 29, 2018, our investment portfolio included short-term fixed-income investment securities with a fair value of approximately $0.5 million.
These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will likely decline in value if interest rates increase.
As we classify our short-term securities as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other-than-temporary.
32 



Table of Contents  



We evaluate our investments periodically for possible other-than-temporary impairment by reviewing factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient for anticipated recovery of market value.
As of September 29, 2018, we held no investments with loss positions.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.
As a result, we have risk associated with currency fluctuations as the value of foreign currencies fluctuate against the U.S. dollar, in particular the Swiss Franc, Euro, Malaysian Ringgit, Chinese Yuan, Philippine Peso and Japanese Yen.
Dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the fiscal year-end balance sheet date.
Income and expense accounts are translated at an average exchange rate during the year which approximates the rates in effect at the transaction dates.
The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
As a result of fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar as of September 29, 2018, compared to December 30, 2017, our stockholders’ equity decreased by $3.4 million.
Based upon the current levels of net foreign assets, a hypothetical 10% devaluation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of September 29, 2018 would result in an approximate $12.3 million positive translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity.
Conversely, a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of September 29, 2018 would result in an approximate $12.3 million negative translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity.
