Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
Investment and Interest Rate Risk.
At March 30, 2019, our investment portfolio included short-term fixed-income investment securities with a fair value of approximately $0.6 million.
These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will likely decline in value if interest rates increase.
As we classify our short-term securities as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other-than-temporary.
36 



Table of Contents  



We evaluate our investments periodically for possible other-than-temporary impairment by reviewing factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient for anticipated recovery of market value.
As of March 30, 2019, we held no investments with loss positions.
However, the fair value of our debt will generally fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest.
As of March 30, 2019, we have approximately $348.3 million of long-term debt due under a Credit Facility that is subject to quarterly interest payments that are based on either a base rate plus a margin of up to 2.0% per annum, or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin of up to 3.0% per annum.
The selection of the interest rate formula is at our discretion.
The interest rate otherwise payable under the Credit Facility will be subject to increase by 2.0% per annum during the continuance of a payment default and may be subject to increase by 2.0% per annum with respect to the overdue principal amount of any loans outstanding and overdue interest payments and other overdue fees and amounts.
At March 30, 2019, the interest rate in effect on these borrowings was 5.90%.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.
As a result, we have risk associated with currency fluctuations as the value of foreign currencies fluctuate against the U.S. dollar, in particular the Swiss Franc, Euro, Malaysian Ringgit, Chinese Yuan, Philippine Peso and Japanese Yen.
Dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense accounts are translated at an average exchange rate during the period which approximates the rates in effect at the transaction dates.
The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in stockholders’ equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
As a result of fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar as of March 30, 2019, compared to December 29, 2018, our stockholders’ equity decreased by $5.3 million.
Based upon the current levels of net foreign assets, a hypothetical 10% devaluation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of March 30, 2019 would result in an approximate $46.7 million positive translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity.
Conversely, a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. Dollar as compared to these currencies as of March 30, 2019 would result in an approximate $46.7 million negative translation adjustment recorded in other comprehensive income within stockholders’ equity.
