Item 1.Financial Statements.
COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(In thousands, except per share data)



(Unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
3



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 



(In thousands, except per share data)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
4



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 



(In thousands)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
5



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(In thousands)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6



COMPUTER PROGRAMS AND SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited)



1.
All such adjustments are considered of a normal recurring nature.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 was derived from the audited consolidated balance sheet at that date.
Principles of Consolidation



The condensed consolidated financial statements of CPSI include the accounts of TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Evident, LLC ("Evident"), Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), and iNetXperts, Corp. d/b/a Get Real Health ("Get Real Health"), all of which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of CPSI.
The accounts of HHI include those of its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), Rycan Technologies, Inc. ("Rycan"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
2.
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



New Accounting Standards Adopted in 2019



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements.
The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous U.S. GAAP.
We adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2019 using the current period adjustment method.
The impact on the financial statements of implementation of this standard was an increase in lease assets and lease liabilities of $4.9 million as of the adoption date, January 1, 2019.
This guidance will be effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2019, which is effective for the Company as of the first quarter of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the implementation of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements.
3.
The Company employs the 5-step revenue recognition model under Accounting Standards Codification 



7



("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, to: (1) identify the contract with the client, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation.
System Sales and Support



The Company enters into contractual obligations to sell perpetual software licenses, installation, conversion, training, hardware and software application support and hardware maintenance services to acute care and post-acute care community hospitals.
Revenue is recognized as each module's implementation is completed based on the module's stand-alone selling price ("SSP"), net of discounts.
Fees for licenses, installation, conversion, and related training are typically due in three installments: (1) at placement of order, (2) upon installation of software and commencement of training, and (3) upon satisfactory completion of monthly accounting cycle or end-of-month operation by application and as applicable for each application.
Often, short-term and/or long-term financing arrangements are provided for software implementations; refer to Note 10 - Financing Receivables for further information.
Electronic health records ("EHR") implementations include a system warranty that terminates thirty days from the software go-live date, the date on which the client begins using the system in a live environment.
The SSP of hardware is cost plus a reasonable margin.
Payment is generally due upon delivery of the hardware to the client.
Standard manufacturer warranties apply to hardware.
Recurring Revenues



•Software application support and hardware maintenance services sold with software licenses and hardware are separate and distinct performance obligations.
Revenue for support and maintenance services is recognized based on SSP, which is the renewal price, ratably over the life of the contract, which is generally three to five years.
Payment is due monthly for support services provided.
•Subscriptions to third party content revenue is recognized as a separate performance obligation ratably over the subscription term based on SSP, which is cost plus a reasonable margin.
Payment is due monthly for subscriptions to third party content.
•Software as a Service ("SaaS") arrangements for EHR software and related conversion and training services are considered a single performance obligation.
Revenue is recognized on a monthly basis as the SaaS service is provided to the client over the contract term.
Payment is due monthly for SaaS services provided.
Refer to Note 16 - Segment Reporting, for further information, including revenue by client base (acute care or post-acute care) bifurcated by recurring and non-recurring revenue.
TruBridge



TruBridge provides an array of business processing services ("BPS") consisting of accounts receivable management, private pay services, insurance services, medical coding, electronic billing, statement processing, payroll processing, and contract management.
Fees are recognized over the period of the client contractual relationship as the services are performed based on the SSP, net of discounts.
Payment is due monthly for BPS with certain amounts varying based on utilization and/or volumes.
TruBridge also provides professional IT services.
Revenue from professional IT services is recognized as the services are performed based on SSP.
Payment is due monthly as services are performed.
Revenue is recognized ratably over the life of the software subscriptions as services are provided and at the point-in-time when implementations have been completed.
The following table details deferred revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, included in the condensed consolidated balance sheets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The deferred revenue recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 is comprised primarily of the annual renewals of certain software subscriptions billed during the first quarter of each year and deposits collected for future EHR installations.
The deferred revenue recognized as revenue during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 is comprised primarily of the periodic recognition of annual renewals that were deferred until earned and deposits for future EHR installations that were deferred until earned.
TruBridge commissions, which are paid up to twelve months in advance of services performed, are capitalized and amortized over the prepayment period.
The following table details costs to obtain and fulfill contracts with customers for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, included in the condensed consolidated balance sheets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Remaining Performance Obligations



Disclosures regarding remaining performance obligations are not considered material as the overwhelming majority of the Company's remaining performance obligations either (a) are related to contracts with an expected duration of one year or less, or (b) exhibit revenue recognition in the amount to which the Company has the right to invoice.
Based in Rockville, Maryland, Get Real Health delivers technology solutions to improve patient outcomes and engagement strategies with care providers.
During 2019, we have incurred approximately $0.5 million of pre-tax acquisition costs in connection with the acquisition of Get Real Health.
Our acquisition of Get Real Health will be treated as a purchase in accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations, which requires allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in the transaction.
Our allocation of the purchase price is based on management's judgment after evaluating several factors, including a preliminary valuation assessment.
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price paid for Get Real Health as of September 30, 2019 was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The intangible assets in the table above are being amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The amortization is included in amortization of acquisition-related intangibles in our condensed consolidated statements of income.
The fair value measurements of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were based on significant inputs not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements within the fair value measurement hierarchy (see Note 15 - Fair Value).
10



The following unaudited pro forma revenue, net loss and earnings per share amounts for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 give effect to the Get Real Health acquisition as if it had been completed on January 1, 2018.
The pro forma financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what the operating results actually would have been during the periods presented had the Get Real Health acquisition been completed during the periods presented.
The pro forma information does not fully reflect: (1) any anticipated synergies (or costs to achieve synergies) or (2) the impact of non-recurring items directly related to the Get Real Health acquisition.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Pro forma net income was calculated by adjusting the results for the applicable period to reflect (i) the additional amortization that would have been charged assuming the fair value adjustments to intangible assets had been applied on January 1, 2018 and (ii) adjustments to amortized revenue during fiscal 2019 and 2018 as a result of the acquisition date valuation of assumed deferred revenue.
5.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT



Property and equipment, net was comprised of the following at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11



6.
OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES



Other accrued liabilities was comprised of the following at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7.
NET INCOME PER SHARE



The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") data for its common stock.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the net income attributable to stockholders of the Company and the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares, including awards under stock-based compensation arrangements.
The Company's unvested restricted stock awards (see Note 9) are considered participating securities under FASB Codification topic, Earnings Per Share, because they entitle holders to non-forfeitable rights to dividends until the awards vest or are forfeited.
When a company has a security that qualifies as a "participating security," the Codification requires the use of the two-class method when computing basic EPS.
In determining the amount of net income to allocate to common stockholders, income is allocated to both common stock and participating securities based on their respective weighted average shares outstanding for the period, with net income attributable to common stockholders ultimately equaling net income less net income attributable to participating securities.
Diluted EPS for the Company's common stock is computed using the more dilutive of the two-class method or the treasury stock method.
The following is a calculation of the basic and diluted EPS for the Company's common stock, including a reconciliation between net income and net income attributable to common stockholders:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12



During 2018 and 2019, performance share awards were granted to certain executive officers and key employees of the Company that will result in the issuance of time-vesting restricted stock if the predefined performance criteria are met.
See Note 9 - Stock-based Compensation for more information.
8.
During the third quarter of 2018, we implemented the Internal Revenue Service’s “Guidance for Allowance of the Credit for Increasing Research Activities Under IRC Section 41 for Taxpayers that Expense Research and Development Costs on their Financial Statements pursuant to ASC 730,” commonly referred to as the "ASC 730 Safe Harbor Directive".
This Directive provides guidance regarding the examination of certain research and development ("R&D") expenses under ASC 730, Research and Development, and indicates that the IRS will not challenge certain qualified research expenses (QREs) that are characterized as a taxpayer’s adjusted ASC 730 financial statement R&D costs.
The implementation of this guidance, including corresponding 2017 provision-to-return and 2018 year-to-date adjustments, resulted in an overall benefit to our effective tax rate of 81% related to R&D credits for the three months ended September 31, 2018.
R&D credits (inclusive of 2018 provision-to-return adjustments) for the three months ended September 30, 2019 benefited our effective tax rate by 20% for the related period.
Our effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 increased to 15% from 2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
This significant increase in our effective tax rate was primarily due to the implementation of the ASC 730 Safe Harbor Directive during the first nine months of 2018, resulting in an overall benefit to our effective tax rate of 31% related to R&D credits for the first nine months of 2018, inclusive of 2017 provision-to-return adjustments.
R&D credits (inclusive of 2018 provision-to-return adjustments) for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 benefited our effective tax rate by 13% for the related period.
9.
As of September 30, 2019, there was $11.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.
13



Restricted Stock



The Company grants restricted stock to executive officers, certain key employees and non-employee directors under the Plans with the fair value of the awards representing the fair value of the common stock on the date the restricted stock is granted.
Shares of restricted stock generally vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which ranges from one to three years.
The Company records expenses for these grants on a straight-line basis over the applicable vesting periods.
Shares of restricted stock may also be issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards, for which the Company records expenses in the manner described in the "Performance Share Awards" section below.
A summary of restricted stock activity (including shares of restricted stock issued pursuant to the settlement of performance share awards) under the Plans during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Performance Share Awards



The Company granted performance share awards to executive officers and certain key employees under the Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan prior to 2019 and under the 2019 Incentive Plan beginning in 2019.
The number of shares of common stock earned and issuable under each award is determined at the end of a one-year or three-year performance period, as applicable, based on the Company's achievement of performance goals predetermined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors at the time of grant.
One-year performance share awards are then subject to time-based vesting pursuant to which the shares of restricted stock vest in equal annual installments over the applicable vesting period, which is generally three years.
In the event that the Company's financial performance meets the predetermined targets for the performance objectives of the one-year and three-year performance share awards, the Company will issue each award recipient the number of shares of restricted stock or common stock, as applicable, equal to the target award specified in the individual's underlying performance share award agreement.
In the event the financial results of the Company exceed the predetermined targets, additional shares up to the maximum award may be issued.
In the event the financial results of the Company fall below the predetermined targets, a reduced number of shares may be issued.
The total number of shares issued for the three-year performance share award may be increased, decreased, or unchanged based on the TSR modifier described above.
The recipients of performance share awards do not receive dividends or possess voting rights during the performance period and, accordingly, the fair value of the one-year and three-year performance share awards is the quoted market value of CPSI's common stock on the grant date less the present value of the expected dividends not received during the relevant period.
The TSR modifier applicable to the three-year performance share awards is considered a market condition and therefore is reflected in the grant date fair value of the award.
A Monte Carlo simulation has been used to account for this market condition in the grant date fair value of the award.
14



Expense of one-year performance share awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution (graded vesting) method over the period beginning on the date the Company determines that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and ending on the last day of the vesting period for the restricted stock issued in satisfaction of such awards.
Expense of three-year performance share awards is recognized using ratable straight-line amortization over the three-year performance period.
In the event the Company determines it is no longer probable that the minimum performance level will be achieved, all previously recognized compensation expense related to the applicable awards is reversed in the period such a determination is made.
A summary of performance share award activity under the Plans during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 is as follows, based on the target award amounts set forth in the performance share award agreements:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10. FINANCING RECEIVABLES



Short-Term Payment Plans



The Company provides fixed monthly payment arrangements ("short-term payment plans") over terms ranging from three to twelve months for meaningful use stage three and other add-on software installations.
These receivables, included in the current portion of financing receivables, were comprised of the following at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Long-Term Financing Arrangements



Additionally, the Company provides financing for purchases of its information and patient care systems to certain healthcare providers under long-term financing arrangements expiring in various years through 2026.
Under long-term financing arrangements, the transaction price is adjusted by a discount rate that reflects market conditions that would be used for a separate financing transaction between the Company and licensee at contract inception, and takes into account the credit characteristics of the licensee and market interest rates as of the date of the agreement.
As payments are received from the licensee, the Company recognizes a portion of the financing component as interest income, reported as other income in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
These receivables typically have terms from two to seven years.
15



The components of these receivables were as follows at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Future minimum payments to be received subsequent to September 30, 2019 are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and Allowance for Credit Losses



The following table is a roll-forward of the allowance for financing credit losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and year ended December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company’s financing receivables are comprised of a single portfolio segment, as the balances are all derived from short-term payment plan arrangements and long-term financing arrangements within our target market of community hospitals.
In addition to specific account identification, the Company utilizes historical collection experience to establish the allowance for credit losses.
Financing receivables are written off only after the Company has exhausted all collection efforts.
Customer payments are considered past due if a scheduled payment is not received within contractually agreed upon terms.
As a result, all past due amounts related to the Company’s financing receivables are included in trade accounts receivable in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The following is an analysis of the age of financing receivables amounts (excluding short-term payment plans) that have been reclassified to trade accounts receivable and were past due as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



16



From time to time, the Company may agree to alternative payment terms outside of the terms of the original financing receivable agreement due to customer difficulties in achieving the original terms.
In general, such alternative payment arrangements do not result in a re-aging of the related receivables.
Rather, payments pursuant to any alternative payment arrangements are applied to the already outstanding invoices beginning with the oldest outstanding invoices as the payments are received.
Because amounts are reclassified to trade accounts receivable when they become due, there are no past due amounts included within financing receivables current portion or financing receivables, net of current portion, in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company utilizes an aging of trade accounts receivable as the primary credit quality indicator for its financing receivables, which is facilitated by the reclassification of customer payment amounts to trade accounts receivable when they become due.
The table below categorizes customer financing receivable balances (excluding short-term payment plans), based on the age of the oldest payment outstanding that has been reclassified to trade accounts receivable:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL



Our purchased definite-lived intangible assets as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 are summarized as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



17



 The following table represents the remaining amortization of definite-lived intangible assets as of September 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table sets forth the change in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment for the nine months ended September 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually on October 1, or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist.
12.
LONG-TERM DEBT



Long-term debt was comprised of the following at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18



As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of debt approximated the fair value due to the variable interest rate, which reflected the market rate.
Credit Agreement



In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into a syndicated credit agreement (the "Previous Credit Agreement") with Regions Bank ("Regions") serving as administrative agent, which provided for a $125 million term loan facility (the "Previous Term Loan Facility") and a $50 million revolving credit facility (the "Previous Revolving Credit Facility").
On October 13, 2017, we entered into a Second Amendment (the "Second Amendment") to refinance and decrease the aggregate principal amount of the credit facilities from $175 million to $162 million, which included a $117 million term loan facility (the "Amended Term Loan Facility") and a $45 million revolving credit facility (the "Amended Revolving Credit Facility" and, together with the Amended Term Loan Facility, the "Amended Credit Facilities").
On February 8, 2018, we entered into a Third Amendment (the "Third Amendment") to the credit agreement (as amended, the "Amended Credit Agreement") to increase the aggregate principal amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
Each of the Amended Credit Facilities continues to bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, either (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greater of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2).
The applicable margin range for LIBOR loans and the letter of credit fee ranges from 2.0% to 3.5%.
The applicable margin range for base rate loans ranges from 1.0% to 2.5%, in each case based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30, 2022, with maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date").
Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.
Anticipated annual future maturities of the Amended Term Loan Facility, Amended Revolving Credit Facility, and capital lease obligation are as follows as of September 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent, on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
The Amended Credit Agreement, as amended by the Third Amendment, provides incremental facility capacity of $50 million, subject to certain conditions.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25:1.00 throughout the duration of such agreement.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is required to comply with a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.95:1.00 through December 31, 2017 and 3.50:1.00 from January 1, 2018 and thereafter.
We believe that we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the Amended Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2019.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement under the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.0 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2019 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2018.
13.
OPERATING LEASES



The Company leases office space in various locations in Alabama, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, Minnesota, Colorado, Maryland, and Mississippi.
These leases have terms expiring from 2019 through 2030 but do contain optional extension terms.
Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Supplemental balance sheet information related to operating leases was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Because our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
We used the incremental borrowing rate on January 1, 2019, for operating leases that commenced prior to that date.
The future minimum lease payments payable under these operating leases subsequent to September 30, 2019 are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



20



Total rent expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $1.6 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
Total cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities within operating cash flows from operating leases for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.3 million.
14.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



From time to time, the Company is involved in routine litigation that arises in the ordinary course of business.
15.
The Codification does not require any new fair value measurements, but rather applies to all other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements.
The Codification requires that assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories:



Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.
As of September 30, 2019, we measured the fair value of contingent consideration that represents the potential earnout incentive for Get Real Health's former equity holders.
We did not have any other instruments that require fair value measurement as of September 30, 2019.
The following table summarizes the carrying amounts and fair value of the contingent consideration at September 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accrued contingent consideration depicted below represents the potential earnout incentive for former Rycan shareholders, relating to the purchase of Rycan by HHI in 2015.
We estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration based on the amount of revenue we expected to be earned by Rycan through the year ending December 31, 2018 in accordance with the purchase agreement between the parties.
22



16.
SEGMENT REPORTING



Our chief operating decision makers ("CODM") utilize three operating segments, "Acute Care EHR," "Post-acute Care EHR" and "TruBridge," based on our three distinct business units with unique market dynamics and opportunities.
Our CODM group is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Growth Officer, Chief Operating Officer, and Chief Financial Officer.
Accounting policies for each of the reportable segments are the same as those used on a consolidated basis.
The following table presents a summary of the revenues and gross profits of our three operating segments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



17.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS



On November 5, 2019, the Company announced a dividend for the fourth quarter of 2019 in the amount of $0.10 per share, payable on November 29, 2019, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 15, 2019.
23
