22

Background



CPSI is a leading provider of healthcare solutions and services for community hospitals and other healthcare systems and post-acute care facilities.
Founded in 1979, CPSI offers our products and services through four companies - Evident, LLC ("Evident"), TruBridge, LLC ("TruBridge"), Healthland Inc. ("Healthland"), and American HealthTech, Inc. ("AHT").
These combined companies are focused on helping improve the health of the communities we serve, connecting communities for a better patient care experience, and improving the financial operations of our clients.
The individual contributions of each of these companies towards this combined focus are as follows:



•Evident, formed in April 2015, provides a comprehensive acute care electronic health record ("EHR") solution, Thrive, and related services for community hospitals and their physician clinics.
•Healthland provides a comprehensive acute care EHR solution, Centriq, and related services for community hospitals and their physician clinics.
•TruBridge focuses on providing business management, consulting, and managed IT services along with its complete revenue cycle management ("RCM") solution for all care settings, regardless of their primary healthcare information solutions provider.
•AHT provides a comprehensive post-acute care EHR solution and related services for skilled nursing and assisted living facilities.
Our companies currently support approximately 1,100 acute care facilities and approximately 3,500 post-acute care facilities with a geographically diverse customer mix within the domestic community healthcare market.
Our clients primarily consist of community hospitals with 200 or fewer acute care beds, with hospitals having 100 or fewer beds comprising approximately 94% of our hospital EHR customer base.
We operate in three reportable segments: (1) Acute Care EHR, (2) Post-acute Care EHR and (3) TruBridge.
See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information on our segment reporting.
Acute Care EHR



Our Acute Care EHR segment consists of acute care software solutions and support sales generated by Evident and Healthland.
Post-acute Care EHR



Our Post-acute Care EHR segment consists of post-acute care software solutions and support sales generated by AHT.
TruBridge



Our TruBridge segment primarily consists of business management, consulting and managed IT services sales generated by TruBridge and the sale of Rycan's revenue cycle management workflow and automation software.
We believe that as our combined customer base grows, the demand for additional products and services, including business management, consulting and managed IT services, will also continue to grow, supporting further increases in recurring revenues.
We also expect to drive revenue growth from new product development that we may generate from our research and development activities.
January 2016 marked an important milestone for CPSI, as we announced the completion of our acquisition of Healthland Holding Inc. ("HHI"), the first major acquisition in the Company's history.
This acquisition expanded our footprint for servicing acute care facilities and introduced us to the post-acute care segment, adding significantly to our already substantial recurring revenue base and further expanding our ability to generate organic recurring revenue growth through additional cross-selling 



23

opportunities now available within the combined company.
Once a hospital has installed our solutions, we continue to provide support services to the customer on an ongoing basis and make available to the customer our broad portfolio of business management, consulting, and managed IT services.
The provision of these services typically requires fewer resources than the initial system installation, resulting in increased overall gross margins.
For example, during the first quarter of 2018, we further integrated our acute care product lines into a combined client support group.
Using best practices of the combined companies implementation processes, we have decreased travel costs for our acute-care installations by approximately 25%.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, TruBridge eliminated approximately $0.6 million per quarter of cloud hosting service costs for the HHI customer base by utilizing in-house resources.
Also, during the first quarter of 2017, we instituted a limited-time, voluntary severance program offering those employees meeting certain predetermined criteria severance packages involving continuing periodic cash payments and healthcare benefits for varying periods, depending upon the individual's years of service with the Company.
Additionally, healthcare organizations with a large dependency on Medicare and Medicaid populations, such as community hospitals, have been affected by the challenging financial condition of the federal government and many state governments and government programs.
Accordingly, we recognize that prospective hospital clients often do not have the necessary capital to make investments in information technology.
Additionally, in response to these challenges, hospitals have become more selective regarding where they invest capital, resulting in a focus on strategic spending that generates a return on their investment.
Despite these challenges, we believe healthcare information technology is often viewed as more strategically beneficial to hospitals than other possible purchases because the technology also plays an important role in healthcare by improving safety and efficiency and reducing costs.
Additionally, we believe most hospitals recognize that they must invest in healthcare information technology to meet current and future regulatory, compliance and government reimbursement requirements.
In recent years, there have been significant changes to provider reimbursement by the U.S. federal government, followed by commercial payers and state governments.
This pressure could further encourage adoption of healthcare IT and increase demand for business management, consulting, and managed IT services as the future success of these healthcare providers is greatly dependent upon their ability to engage patient populations and to coordinate patient care across a multitude of settings, while optimizing operating efficiency along the way.
We have historically made financing arrangements available to customers on a case-by-case basis depending upon the various aspects of the proposed contract and customer attributes.
These financing arrangements include other short-term payment plans and longer-term lease financing through us or third-party financing companies.
For those clients not seeking a financing arrangement, the payment schedule of the typical contract is structured to provide for a scheduling deposit due at contract signing, with the remainder of the contracted fees due at various stages of the installation process (delivery of hardware, installation of software and commencement of training, and satisfactory completion of a monthly accounting cycle or end-of-month operation by and as applicable for each respective application).
During 2017, total financing receivables increased by $15.5 million, which had a significant impact on operating cash flow.
The increase in financing arrangements is primarily due to two reasons.
First, meaningful use stage 3 installations are primarily financed through short-term payment plans.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily through accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
We have also historically made our software applications available to clients through "Software as a Service" or "SaaS" configurations, including our Cloud Electronic Health Record ("Cloud EHR") offering.
We have experienced a substantial increase in the prevalence of such SaaS arrangements for new system installations and add-on sales to existing clients since 2015, a trend we expect to continue for the foreseeable future.
Unlike our historical perpetual license arrangements under which the related revenue is recognized effectively upon installation, the SaaS arrangements result in revenue being recognized monthly as the services are provided over the term of the arrangement.
As a 



24

result, the effect of this trend on the Company's financial statements is reduced system sales revenues during the period of installation in exchange for increased recurring periodic revenues (reflected in system sales and support revenues) over the term of the SaaS arrangement.
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009



While ongoing financial challenges facing healthcare organizations have impacted and are expected to continue to impact the community hospitals that comprise our target market, we believe that the reduced reimbursement under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA") for those providers failing to adopt qualifying EHRs will continue to support demand for healthcare information technology and will have a positive impact on our business prospects through at least 2018.
Similarly, compliance with the meaningful use rules has accelerated the purchases of incremental applications by our existing clients.
Consequently, our penetration rates within our existing customer base for our current menu of applications have increased significantly under the ARRA, thereby significantly narrowing the market for add-on sales to existing clients.
On August 2, 2017, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) announced a final rule that effectively delayed the requirement for stage three compliance from January 1, 2018 to January 1, 2019.
CMS issued a proposed rule in April 2018 that would effectively delay the deadline for compliance to October 1, 2019, by proposing a 90-day attestation period instead of the currently-required full year attestation period.
We view sales of TruBridge solutions within our existing EHR client base as our leading performance indicator.
Our net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $3.7 million from the first three months of 2017 as a result of revenue growth accompanied with improved gross margins of 55%, a 4% increase from the first three months of 2017.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $6.6 million to $3.1 million provided from operations during the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to a reduction of short-term liabilities and other changes in working capital.
25

The following table sets forth certain items included in our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, expressed as a percentage of our total revenues for these periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



26

Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 



Revenues.
Total revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased 10.6%, or $6.8 million, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017.
System sales and support revenues increased by 5%, or $2.3 million, from the first quarter of 2017.
System sales and support revenues were comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Non-recurring system sales and support revenues increased $3.0 million, or 30%, primarily as Acute Care EHR non-recurring revenue increased $3.5 million, or 40%.
Acute Care EHR benefited from $4.4 million in MU3 implementations during the first quarter of 2018, compared to none in the same period of 2017.
This increase was partially offset by a decrease in other add-on software implementations as a result of the Company's and clients' emphasis on MU3 certification prior to the January 1, 2019 deadline.
We installed acute care EHR solutions at six new hospital clients during the first quarter of 2018 (one under a SaaS arrangement, resulting in revenue being recognized ratably over the contractual term) compared to four new hospital clients during the first quarter of 2017 (one under a SaaS arrangement).
Recurring system sales and support revenues decreased $0.7 million, or 2%.
Acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased $0.4 million, or 1%, as a result of 2017 price increase freezes for the existing customer base to ease the impact of MU3 implementation coupled with attrition, primarily from the Healthland customer base, outweighing new customer growth.
Post-acute Care EHR recurring revenues decreased by $0.2 million, or 5%, due to attrition attributed to the aforementioned aggressive competitive environment.
TruBridge revenues increased 22%, or $4.5 million, from the first quarter of 2017.
Our insurance services revenues have increased 6%, or $0.4 million, primarily as our Rycan revenue cycle management solution continues to see customer base growth.
Costs of Sales.
Total costs of sales increased by 1%, or $0.4 million, from the first quarter of 2017.
As a percentage of total revenues, costs of sales decreased to 45% in the first quarter of 2018 from 49% in the first quarter of 2017.
The gross margin on Post-acute Care EHR system sales and support increased to 70% in the first quarter of 2018, from 68% in the first quarter of 2017.
Increased payroll was partially offset by an approximate $0.6 million decrease in cloud hosting costs as a result of moving to in-house resources during the fourth quarter of 2017 for cloud services provided to the HHI customer base.
The gross margin on these services increased to 47% in the first quarter of 2018 from 43% in the first quarter of 2017, primarily attributed to the realization of 2017 bookings to revenue in which the aforementioned accompanying payroll costs constricted margins during 2017.
Product Development.
Product development costs increased 8%, or $0.7 million, from the first quarter of 2017, as a result of increased headcount dedicated to functionality additions and enhancements across the product lines, as well as integration across product lines.
Sales and Marketing.
Sales and marketing expenses increased 8%, or $0.6 million, from the first quarter of 2017, primarily due to increased TruBridge-specific and MU3 commissions expense, and the related payroll taxes.
General and Administrative.
General and administrative expenses increased 6%, or $0.7 million, from the first quarter of 2017, primarily due to a $0.5 million increase in bad debt expense and a $0.7 million, or 23%, increase in employee health costs during the first quarter of 2018.
Bad debt was negatively impacted by the closure of one of our hospital clients, while increased prescription drug utilization drove employee health costs higher.
These increases were partially offset by a $0.3 million decrease in voluntary severance program expense from the first quarter of 2017.
Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles.
Amortization expense associated with acquisition-related intangible assets was relatively unchanged from the first quarter of 2017.
Total Operating Expenses.
As a percentage of total revenues, total operating expenses decreased to 44% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 46% in the first quarter of 2017.
Total Other Income (Expense).
Total other income (expense) increased from expense of $1.7 million during the first quarter of 2017 to expense of $1.8 million during the first quarter of 2018, as market conditions have resulted in increased interest rates paid on our variable-rate debt obligations.
As a result of the foregoing factors, income before taxes increased by 292%, or $4.4 million, from the first quarter of 2017.
Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased to 32.4% from 83.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The first quarter of 2018 also included a $0.4 million shortfall tax expense related to stock-based compensation that increased the effective rate by 6%.
During the first quarter of 2017 we experienced a shortfall tax expense related to stock-based compensation of $0.8 million that increased the effective rate by 51%.
Net Income.
Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased by $3.7 million to a net income of $4.0 million, or $0.29 per basic and diluted share, compared with net income of $0.2 million, or $0.02 per basic and diluted share, for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
Net income represented 6% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to less than 1% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
28

Liquidity and Capital Resources



Sources of Liquidity



As of March 31, 2018, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $1.7 million and our remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $13.7 million compared to $0.5 million of cash and cash equivalents and $17.0 million of remaining borrow capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2017.
In conjunction with our acquisition of HHI in January 2016, we entered into the Previous Credit Agreement which provided for the $125 million Previous Term Loan Facility and the $50 million Previous Revolving Credit Facility.
On October 13, 2017, the Company entered into the Second Amendment to refinance and decrease the aggregate committed size of the credit facilities from $175 million to $162 million, which included the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and the $45 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
On February 8, 2018, the Company entered into the Third Amendment to increase the aggregate principle amount of the Amended Credit Facilities from $162 million to $167 million, which includes the $117 million Amended Term Loan Facility and a $50 million Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
As of March 31, 2018, we had $143.1 million in principle amount of indebtedness outstanding under the Amended Credit Facilities.
We believe that our cash and cash equivalents of $1.7 million as of March 31, 2018, the future operating cash flows of the combined entity, and our remaining borrowing capacity under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $13.7 million as of March 31, 2018, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing cash requirements for the next twelve months.
Operating Cash Flow Activities



Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $6.6 million, from $9.7 million provided by operations for the three months ended 2017 to $3.1 million provided by operations for the three months ended 2018.
The decrease in cash flows provided from operations is primarily due to a combined $4.2 million decrease in payables and other liabilities as a result of the timing of vendor and payroll payments accompanied by a $1.2 million decrease in the cash impact of deferred revenues during the first quarter of 2018.
The $3.7 million increase in net income was mostly offset by a combined accounts and financing receivables expansion of $4.6 million more than during the first quarter of 2017.
The increase in financing arrangements is primarily due to two reasons.
First, meaningful use stage 3 installations are primarily financed through short-term payment plans.
Second, competitor financing options, primarily accounts receivables management collections and cloud EHR arrangements, have applied pressure to reduce initial customer capital investment requirements for new EHR installations, leading to the offering of long-term lease options.
Investing Cash Flow Activities



Net cash used in investing activities increased to $0.1 million in the first three months of 2018 compared to none during the first three months of 2017.
We do not anticipate the need for significant capital expenditures during the remainder of 2018. 



Financing Cash Flow Activities



During the first three months of 2018, our financing activities used net cash of $1.9 million, as we paid a net $0.5 million in long term-debt principal and we declared and paid dividends in the amount of $1.4 million.
During the first quarter of 2018, we made a $7.3 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility, by drawing down on the Revolving Credit Facility, in accordance with the excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirements of the Amended Credit Agreement.
Financing cash flow activities used $10.0 million during the first three months of 2017, primarily due to $6.6 million paid in long-term debt principal and $3.4 million cash paid in dividends.
The decrease in dividends paid is a result of moving to a fixed dividend policy during the fourth quarter of 2017.
We believe that paying dividends is an effective way of providing an investment return to our stockholders and a beneficial use of our cash.
However, the declaration of dividends by CPSI is subject to compliance with the terms of our Amended Credit Agreement and the discretion of our Board of Directors which may decide to change or terminate the Company's dividend policy at any time.
29

Credit Agreement



As of March 31, 2018, we had $106.8 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Term Loan Facility and $36.3 million in principal amount outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
Each of the Amended Credit Facilities continues to bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an applicable margin plus, at our option, either (1) the Adjusted LIBOR rate for the relevant interest period, (2) an alternate base rate determined by reference to the greater of (a) the prime lending rate of Regions, (b) the federal funds rate for the relevant interest period plus one half of one percent per annum and (c) the one month LIBOR rate plus one percent per annum, or (3) a combination of (1) and (2).
The applicable margin range for LIBOR loans and the letter of credit fee ranges from 2.00% to 3.50%.
The applicable margin range for base rate loans ranges from 1.00% to 2.50%, in each case based on the Company's consolidated leverage ratio.
Principal payments with respect to the Amended Term Loan Facility are due on the last day of each fiscal quarter beginning December 31, 2017, with quarterly principal payments of approximately $1.46 million through September 30, 2019, approximately $2.19 million through September 30, 2021 and approximately $2.93 million through September 30.
2022, with the maturity on October 13, 2022 or such earlier date as the obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement become due and payable pursuant to the terms of the Amended Credit Agreement (the "Amended Maturity Date").
Any principal outstanding under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.
The Amended Credit Facilities are secured pursuant to a Pledge and Security Agreement, dated January 8, 2016, among the parties identified as obligors therein and Regions, as collateral agent (the “Security Agreement”), on a first priority basis by a security interest in substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets (subject to certain exceptions) of the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors (collectively, the “Subsidiary Guarantors”), including certain registered intellectual property and the capital stock of certain of the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement are also guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors.
The Amended Credit Agreement, as amended by the Third Amendment, provides incremental facility capacity of $50 million, subject to certain conditions.
The Amended Credit Agreement includes a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things and in each case subject to certain exceptions and baskets, impose operating and financial restrictions on the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, including the ability to incur additional debt; incur liens and encumbrances; make certain restricted payments, including paying dividends on the Company's equity securities or payments to redeem, repurchase or retire the Company's equity securities (which are subject to our compliance, on a pro forma basis to give effect to the restricted payment, with the fixed charge coverage ratio and consolidated leverage ratio described below); enter into certain restrictive agreements; make investments, loans and acquisitions; merge or consolidate with any other person; dispose of assets; enter into sale and leaseback transactions; engage in transactions with affiliates; and materially alter the business we conduct.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25:1.00 throughout the duration of such agreement.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is required to comply with a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.95:1.00 through December 31, 2017 and 3.50:1.00 from January 1, 2018 and thereafter.
The Amended Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default.
We believe that we were in compliance with the covenants contained in the Amended Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2018.
The Amended Credit Agreement requires the Company to mandatorily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities with (i) 75% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2018 and (ii) 50% of excess cash flow (minus certain specified other payments) during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2019 and thereafter.
The Company is permitted to voluntarily prepay the Amended Credit Facilities at any time without penalty, subject to customary “breakage” costs with respect to prepayments of LIBOR rate loans made on a day other than the last day of any applicable interest period.
The excess cash flow mandatory prepayment requirement of the Amended Credit Agreement resulted in a $7.3 million prepayment on the Amended Term Loan Facility during the first quarter of 2018 related to excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2017.
This mandatory prepayment was funded by drawing down on the Amended Revolving Credit Facility, as excess cash flow generated by the Company during 2017 was primarily used to voluntarily prepay amounts due under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility.
As of March 31, 2018, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $35 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $230 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance, Cloud EHR contracts, and 



30

TruBridge services.
As of March 31, 2017, we had a twelve-month backlog of approximately $25 million in connection with non-recurring system purchases and approximately $215 million in connection with recurring payments under support and maintenance and TruBridge services.
Bookings



Bookings is a key operational metric used by management to assess the relative success of our sales generation efforts, and were as follows for the periods ending March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Acute Care EHR bookings increased $2.5 million, or 16%, from the first quarter of 2017 as new system implementations bookings strengthened from prior year levels, which we attribute mostly to timing as the pipeline for the EHR replacement market has not materially changed.
Post-acute Care EHR bookings decreased $1.2 million, or 62%, from the first quarter of 2017.
Although management has formulated a strategy and enacted steps to improve the related product functionality and usability and is confident that such measures will translate into improved future bookings performance (and, eventually, revenue growth), there can be no guarantee that this strategy will be successful.
During the fourth quarter of 2017, the anticipated attrition of significant customer accounts and a product development acceleration investment plan in our Post-acute Care EHR software led management to record a goodwill impairment of $28.0 million against our Post-acute Care EHR reporting unit as of December 31, 2017.
We continue to execute on our TruBridge strategy by moving up-market into larger healthcare facilities while expanding the scope of our relationships with new and existing customers by increasing revenue-generating touchpoints within those facilities.
Such large, enterprise client wins resulted in TruBridge bookings for the first quarter of 2017 that were the second-highest in TruBridge history at that time, with bookings for the remainder of 2017 being heavily influenced by large, enterprise client wins.
Absent any such large, enterprise client wins during the first quarter of 2018, TruBridge bookings experienced a normalization that resulted in a decrease from the first quarter of 2017.
We continue to see demand for TruBridge's products and services that alleviate administrative burden on our clients and allow them to take advantage of our specialized capabilities.
Particularly strong demand exists for TruBridge's accounts receivable management and medical coding services.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



We had no off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K, as of March 31, 2018.
The Company has other lease rights and obligations that it accounts for as operating leases that may be reclassified as balance sheet arrangements under accounting pronouncements recently finalized by the FASB.
In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, we identified our critical accounting polices related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, allowance for credit losses, and estimates.
During the first quarter of 2018, we adopted the new accounting standard codified as Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and all related amendments and have applied it to all contracts using the modified retrospective method, pursuant to which the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard is recognized as an adjustment to retained earnings and impacted balance sheet line items as of January 1, 2018, the date of adoption.
Refer to Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion.
There have been no other significant changes to these critical accounting policies during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
