Interest Rate Risk



Fixed Income Securities We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk.
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio.
We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives.
We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our fixed income securities as of January 27, 2018.
Our fixed income investments are not leveraged as of January 27, 2018.
We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers.
We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.
Financing Receivables As of January 27, 2018, our financing receivables had a carrying value of $9.8 billion, compared with $9.6 billion as of July 29, 2017.
As of January 27, 2018, a hypothetical 50 basis points (“BPS”) increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of our financing receivables by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.1 billion, respectively.
Debt  As of January 27, 2018, we had $30.5 billion in principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which consisted of $2.9 billion floating-rate notes and $27.6 billion fixed-rate notes.
The carrying amount of the senior notes was $30.4 billion, and the related fair value based on market prices was $31.8 billion.
As of January 27, 2018, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $6.8 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.6 billion, respectively.
However, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt that is not hedged.
Equity Price Risk



The fair value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility.
Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most closely match the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index or NASDAQ Composite Index.
These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading.
To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives designated as hedging instruments.
Publicly Traded Equity Securities The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of publicly traded equity securities as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each equity security in the portfolio, excluding hedged equity securities, if any.
Potential fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 20%, and 30% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices.
The hypothetical fair values as of January 27, 2018 and July 29, 2017 are as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



76

Investments in Privately Held Companies We have also invested in privately held companies.
These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are accounted for using primarily either the cost or the equity method.
As of January 27, 2018, the total carrying amount of our investments in privately held companies was $982 million, compared with $983 million at July 29, 2017.
Some of the privately held companies in which we invested are in the startup or development stages.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk



Our foreign exchange forward and option contracts outstanding as of the respective period-ends are summarized in U.S. dollar equivalents as follows (in millions): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We conduct business globally in numerous currencies.
The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on revenue has not been material because our revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars.
Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated.
In the first six months of fiscal 2018, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased our combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by approximately $41 million, or 0.5%, compared with the first six months of fiscal 2017.
These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign currency protection over long time horizons.
In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge.
We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities.
The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances.
We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for speculative purposes.
77
