Interest Rate Risk



Available-for-Sale Debt Investments We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
Our primary objective for holding available-for-sale debt investments is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk.
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio.
We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives.
We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our available-for-sale debt investments as of October 27, 2018.
Our available-for-sale debt investments are not leveraged as of October 27, 2018.
We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers.
We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong.
Financing Receivables As of October 27, 2018, our financing receivables had a carrying value of $9.5 billion, compared with $9.8 billion as of July 28, 2018.
As of October 27, 2018, a hypothetical 50 basis points (“BPS”) increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of our financing receivables by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.1 billion, respectively.
70

Debt As of October 27, 2018, we had $25.8 billion in principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which consisted of $1.0 billion floating-rate notes and $24.8 billion fixed-rate notes.
The carrying amount of the senior notes was $25.6 billion, and the related fair value based on market prices was $26.2 billion.
As of October 27, 2018, a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $6.8 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.5 billion, respectively.
However, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt that is not hedged.
Equity Price Risk



Marketable Equity Investments.
The fair value of our marketable equity investments, if any, is subject to market price volatility.
Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most closely match the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index or Nasdaq Composite Index.
These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading.
To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives designated as hedging instruments.
We had no outstanding marketable equity investments as of October 27, 2018.
Non-marketable Equity and Other Investments These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of October 27, 2018, the total carrying amount of our investments in non-marketable equity and other investments was $1.2 billion, compared with $1.1 billion at July 28, 2018.
Some of these companies in which we invested are in the startup or development stages.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk



Our foreign exchange forward and option contracts outstanding as of the respective period-ends are summarized in U.S. dollar equivalents as follows (in millions): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We conduct business globally in numerous currencies.
The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on revenue has not been material because our revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars.
Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased our combined R&D, sales and marketing, and G&A expenses by approximately $50 million, or 1.1%, compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign currency protection over long time horizons.
In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge.
We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities.
The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances.
We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for speculative purposes.
71
