Item 3.
Interest Rate Risk  



Long-Term Debt.
The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
The interest rates on our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
Market Risk 



Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $113.8 million and $139.3 million, respectively.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.
Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks.
We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.
Our short-term investments as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $17.7 million and $23.6 million, respectively.
Currently, we utilize short-term investments as a means to invest our excess cash only in the U.S.
The day-to-day management of our short-term investments is performed by a large financial institution in the U.S., using strict and formal investment guidelines approved by our Board.
Under these guidelines, short-term investments are limited to certain acceptable investments with: (i) a maximum maturity; (ii) a maximum concentration and diversification; and (iii) a minimum acceptable credit quality.
Settlement Assets.
We are exposed to market risk associated with cash held on behalf of our clients related to our payment processing services.
As of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $88.6 million and $124.6 million, respectively, of cash collected on behalf of our clients which is held for an established holding period until settlement with the client.
The holding period is generally one to four business days depending on the payment model and contractual terms with the client.
During the holding period, cash is held in trust accounts with various major financial institutions in the U.S. in an amount equal to at least 100% of the aggregate amount owed to our clients.
These balances can significantly fluctuate between periods due to activity at the end of the period and the day in which the period ends.
Long-Term Debt.
The fair value of our convertible debt is exposed to market risk.
We do not carry our convertible debt at fair value but present the fair value for disclosure purposes (see Note 2 to our Financial Statements).
As of June 30, 2019, the fair value of the 2016 Convertible Notes was estimated at $254.4 million, using quoted market prices.
While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we generated approximately 88% of our revenues in U.S. dollars.
