Item 3.
Interest Rate Risk  



Long-Term Debt.
The interest rate on our 2016 Convertible Notes is fixed, and thus, as it relates to our convertible debt borrowings, we are not exposed to changes in interest rates.
The interest rates under our 2018 Credit Agreement are based upon an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin, or an alternate base rate plus an applicable margin.
See Note 4 to our Financial Statements for further details of our long-term debt.
Market Risk 



Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments.
Our cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $197.2 million and $122.3 million, respectively.
Certain of our cash balances are “swept” into overnight money market accounts on a daily basis, and at times, any excess funds are invested in low-risk, somewhat longer term, cash equivalent instruments and short-term investments.
Our cash equivalents are invested primarily in institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and time deposits held at major banks.
We have minimal market risk for our cash and cash equivalents due to the relatively short maturities of the instruments.
Our short-term investments as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $2.1 million and $139.1 million, respectively.
Currently, we utilize short-term investments as a means to invest our excess cash only in the U.S.
The day-to-day management of our short-term investments is performed by a large financial institution in the U.S., using strict and formal investment guidelines approved by our Board.
Under these guidelines, short-term investments are limited to certain acceptable investments with: (i) a maximum maturity; (ii) a maximum concentration and diversification; and (iii) a minimum acceptable credit quality.
The significant decrease in short-term investments between periods is due primarily to the acquisition of Business Ink in February 2018 for approximately $70 million and positioning of cash as of September 30, 2018 for the acquisition of Forte, which closed on October 1, 2018 for a purchase price of approximately $85 million ($80 million, net of cash acquired), less approximately $13 million in cash subject to certain tax filings (see Note 5 to our Financial Statements for additional discussion of our acquisitions).
Long-Term Debt.
The fair value of our convertible debt is exposed to market risk.
We do not carry our convertible debt at fair value but present the fair value for disclosure purposes (see Note 2 to our Financial Statements).
As of September 30, 2018, the fair value of the 2016 Convertible Notes was estimated at $242.7 million, using quoted market prices.
While we attempt to maximize natural hedges by incurring expenses in the same currency in which we contract revenue, the related expenses for that revenue could be in one or more differing currencies than the revenue stream.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we generated approximately 87% of our revenues in U.S. dollars.
