Item 4.
Controls and Procedures



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 



The Company evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2017.
Our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our senior management team supervised and participated in this evaluation.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
As previously disclosed in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2017, our management identified a material weakness as of such date.
The identified material weakness is in connection with our controls over the revenue recognition process at our foreign subsidiaries, specifically whether revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied prior to recognizing revenue and the failure to sufficiently assess gross versus net revenue indicators to certain revenue transactions.
During the periods following our initial identification of the material weakness referred to above, management assessed various alternatives to remediate this material weakness and we implemented changes to our system of internal controls, which included the implementation of enhanced internal auditing procedures, whereby revenue transactions are subjected to an additional review process at the corporate level to ensure the correct accounting methodology is applied to all revenue transactions.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, management continued to take additional actions to upgrade our international accounting staff and improved accounting operations in our European divisions.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, management implemented process improvements and made certain changes to upgrade its internal accounting staff and improve operations in our European division in connection with the identified material weakness noted above.
21
