 Item 1.
6  



 Table of Contents  



 CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



 UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  



 For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018:  



 (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
7  



 Table of Contents  



 CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



 UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



 (Amounts in thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
CSPi and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security products, managed IT services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
1.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
Unless otherwise noted, discussion within these notes to the consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations.
Refer to Note 12 for additional information on discontinued operations.
2.
3.
Revenue  



 Effective October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No.
2014‑09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
See Note 11 for effects of initial adoption.
The following reflects the accounting policy change for revenue starting on the date of adoption:  



 We derive revenue from the sale of integrated hardware and software, third-party service contracts, professional services, managed services, financing of hardware and software, and other services.
The Company is a principal if it controls the good or service before that good or service is transferred to the customer.
We record revenue as gross when the Company is a principal party to the arrangement and net of cost when we are acting as a broker or agent.
Third-party service contracts are sold in different combinations with hardware, software, and services.
When the Company is an agent, revenue is typically recorded at a point in time.
When the Company is the principal, revenue is recognized over the contract term.
Professional services generally include implementation, installation, and training services.
Revenue generated from managed services is recognized over the term of the contract.
Certain managed services contracts include financing of hardware and software.
Revenues from arrangements which include financing are allocated considering relative standalone selling prices of lease and non-lease components within the agreement.
The lease components include the hardware and software, which are subject to ASC 840.
The non-lease component includes the managed services and is subject to ASC 606.
Other services generally include revenue generated through our royalty, extended warranty, multicomputer repair, and maintenance contracts.
Royalty revenue is sales-based and recognized on date of subsequent sale of the product, which occurs on the date of customer shipment.
Revenue from extended warranty contracts is recognized evenly over the period of the warranty.
Multicomputer repair services revenue is recognized upon control transfer when the customer takes possession of the computer at time of shipping.
Revenue generated from maintenance services is recognized evenly over the term of the contract.
Variable consideration is immaterial.
Any products sold with right to return exists with the manufacturer.
Managed service contracts contain the right to refund if canceled within 30 days of inception.
Any products with a standard warranty are treated as a warranty obligation under ASC 460, Guarantees.
Myricom revenue is derived from the sale of products, which are comprised of both hardware and embedded software which is essential to the products functionality, and post contract maintenance and support.
Post contract maintenance and support is considered immaterial in the context of the contract and therefore is not a separate performance obligation.
TS Segment Revenue  



 TS Segment revenue is derived from the sale of hardware, software, professional services, third-party service contracts, maintenance contracts, managed services, and financing of hardware and software.
Financing revenue is recognized in accordance with ASC 840, Leases.
Financing revenue is recorded in revenue as equipment leasing and is part of the Company’s operations.
10  



 Table of Contents  



 See disaggregated revenues below by products/services and geography.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 * Finance revenue is related to equipment leasing and is not subject to the guidance on revenue from contracts with customers.
Significant Judgments  



 The input method using labor hours expended relative to the total expected hours is used to recognize revenue for professional services.
Only the hours that depict the Company’s performance toward satisfying a performance obligation are used for progress.
An estimate for professional services is made at the beginning of each contract based on prior experience and monitored throughout the services.
This method is most appropriate as it depicts the measure of progress towards satisfaction of the performance obligation.
Due to the complex nature of these contracts, there is significant judgment in allocating the transaction price.
For items sold separately, including hardware, software, professional services, maintenance contracts, other services, and third-party service contracts, there is no allocation performed as there is one performance obligation.
Contract Assets and Liabilities  



 When the Company has performed work but does not have an unconditional right to payment, a contract asset is recorded.
When the Company has the right to bill a customer, accounts receivable is recorded as an unconditional right exists.
Current contract assets were $0.6 million and $1.1 million as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
The current portion is recorded in other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
There were no non-current contract assets as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018.
The difference in the balances is due to regular timing differences between when work is performed and having an unconditional right to payment.
11  



 Table of Contents  



 Contract liabilities arise when payment is received before the Company transfers a good or service to the customer.
Current contract liabilities were $0.8 million and $0.9 million as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
There were no non-current contract liabilities as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018.
Revenue recognized for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 that was included in contract liabilities as of the beginning of the period was $0.7 million.
These costs are only capitalized if the contract is obtained.
The period of amortization is generally three to six years.
Incremental costs are related to commissions in the TS portion of the business.
Current capitalized contract costs are within the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets for the periods ended June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
The portion of current capitalized costs was $54 thousand and $71 thousand as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
There are no non-current capitalized costs on the consolidated balance sheets.
There was no impairment related to incremental costs capitalized during the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019.
Current capitalized fulfillment costs are in the account other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
The portion of current capitalized costs was $48 thousand and $60 thousand as of June 30, 2019 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
There are no non-current capitalized fulfillment costs on the consolidated balance sheets.
There was no impairment related to fulfillment costs capitalized.
Other  



 Projects are typically billed upon completion or at certain milestones.
Product and services are typically billed when shipped or as services are being performed.
Payment terms are typically 30 days to pay in full except in Europe where it could be up to 90 days.
Most of the Company’s contracts are less than one year.
The Company elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to performance obligations that have an original expected duration of one year or less.
This is due to a low amount of performance obligations less than one year being unsatisfied at each period end.
Most of these contracts are related to product sales.
The Company has certain contracts that have an original term of more than one year.
The royalty agreement is longer than one year and managed service contracts are generally longer than one year.
For these contracts the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the performance obligations that are unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied as of June 30, 2019 is mainly related to managed service contracts and is set forth in the table below:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 12  



 Table of Contents  



 4.
Earnings Per Share of Common Stock  



 Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
13  



 Table of Contents  



 5.
Total inventory balances in the table above are shown net of reserves for obsolescence of approximately $3.7 million and $3.3 million as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
6.
8.
Pension and Retirement Plans  



 The Company’s continuing operations has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the U.K. and in the U.S.
The Company’s discontinued operations had a defined benefit and defined contribution plan in Germany, which was assumed by Reply AG in its acquisition of the Company’s operations in Germany (see Note 12 below).
In the U.K., the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees.
The U.S. supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan.
The Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers of the Company in the U.S. All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.
Liabilities for amounts in excess of these funding levels are accrued and reported in the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company’s pension plan in the U.K. is the only plan with plan assets.
The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.
The components of net periodic benefit costs related to the U.S. and U.K. plans are as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 15  



 Table of Contents  



 The fair value of the assets held by the U.K. pension plan by asset category are as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 9.
Segment Information  



 The following tables present certain operating segment information for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
Non-operating charges/income consists principally of investment income and interest expense.
All intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues from continuing operations for three and nine months ended June 30, 2019.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Accounts receivable from Customers A and B were less than 10% of total consolidated accounts receivable as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
There were no customers that were 10% or more of total consolidated accounts receivable as of June 30, 2019.
10.
Dividends  



 On December 27, 2018, the Company’s board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share which was paid on January 22, 2019 to shareholders of record as of January 7, 2019, the record date.
17  



 Table of Contents  



 On February 12, 2019, the Company’s board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share which was paid on March 14, 2019 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2019, the record date.
On May 8, 2019, the Company’s board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share which was paid on June 14, 2019 to shareholders of record as of May 31, 2019, the record date.
11.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



 Accounting standards recently adopted  



 In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014‑09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
The standard outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within a contract are satisfied.
The standard also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
The ASU replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP.
The new standard was adopted by the Company effective October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach only to contracts that were not completed as of adoption date.
The Company recognized the cumulative effect of initial application as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
There were no previous period financial statement adjustments.
2016‑15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU will reduce diversity in practice for classifying cash payments and receipts in the statement of cash flows for a number of common transactions.
It will also clarify when identifiable cash flows should be separated versus classified based on their predominant source or use.
This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016‑16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory).
Under current GAAP, the seller and buyer defer the consolidated tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer from the period of the transfer to a future period when the asset is transferred out of the consolidated group, or otherwise affects consolidated earnings.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017.
Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, FASB issued ASU No.
2017‑01, Business Combinations Clarifying the Definition of a Business (Topic 805) (“ASU No.
2017‑01”).
ASU 2017‑01 provides a framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
ASU 2017‑01 provides more consistency in applying the business combination guidance, reduces the costs of application, and makes the definition of a business more operable.
ASU 2017‑01 is effective for interim and 



 19  



 Table of Contents  



annual periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017‑07, Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires employers that sponsor defined benefit pension and/or other post-retirement benefit plans to report the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period.
Additionally, only the service cost component of net periodic pension cost will be eligible for asset capitalization.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets.
Beginning October 1, 2018, the Company adopted the ASU and it did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
New accounting standards not adopted as of June 30, 2019  



 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016‑02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for most lease arrangements.
The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2019.
The standard mandates a modified retrospective transition method for all entities and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016‑02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018‑02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018‑07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
Under this ASU companies will no longer be required to value non-employee awards differently from employee awards, but the accounting remains different for attribution and a contractual term election for valuing nonemployee equity share options.
Equity-classified awards to nonemployees will now be measured at the grant date using fair value of the equity instruments the company is obligated to issue and recognition is associated with the probable outcome.
Awards are subsequently measured using stock compensation guidance unless they are modified after the nonemployee stops providing goods or services.
Existing disclosure requirements within the stock compensation guidance also apply to nonemployee awards.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018‑07 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018‑14, Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715‑20), Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
Under this ASU existing disclosures not considered cost beneficial are removed, disclosures identified as relevant are added, and there is added clarification regarding specific existing disclosures.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2018‑14 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
20  



 Table of Contents  



 12.
Discontinued Operations of TS Segment  



 On July 31, 2018, CSPi LTD, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, completed its sale of all of the outstanding stock of Modcomp GmbH, to Reply AG, an affiliate of Reply SpA, a holding company for a worldwide group of companies, pursuant to the terms of a Share Purchase and Assignment Agreement (the “Share Purchase Agreement”) dated June 27, 2018.
Upon the closing of the Share Purchase Agreement, Reply AG paid to CSPI total cash at closing of approximately $14.4 million, which consisted of the original purchase price of $11.7 million plus an adjustment at closing for Net Cash (as defined in the Share Purchase Agreement) of approximately $2.7 million.
Accordingly, CSPi determined that the assets and liabilities of this reportable segment met the discontinued operations criteria in U.S. GAAP in the year ended September 30, 2018.
The gain recorded due to the sale of all the stock of Modcomp GmbH was approximately $16.8 million.
