Item 1.
Financial Statements



CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Amounts in thousands, except par value) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
3



CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Amounts in thousands, except for per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
5



CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



For the six months ended March 31, 2018: 



(Amounts in thousands, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
6



CSP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



UNAUDITED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Amounts in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
CSPI and its subsidiaries develop and market IT integration solutions, advanced security and managed services, purpose built network adapters, and high-performance cluster computer systems to meet the diverse requirements of its commercial and defense customers worldwide.
The Company operates in two segments, its High Performance Products (“HPP”) segment and its Technology Solutions (“TS”) segment.
1.
All adjustments were of a normal recurring nature.
2.
3.
Earnings Per Share of Common Stock



Basic net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
We are required to present earnings per share, or EPS, utilizing the two class method because we had outstanding, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents, which are considered participating securities.
4.
Inventories



Inventories consist of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Finished goods includes inventory that has been shipped, but for which all revenue recognition criteria has not been met, of approximately $0.2 million and $0.4 million as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Total inventory balances in the table above are shown net of reserves for obsolescence of approximately $3.4 million and $3.1 million as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
5.
9



6.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss



The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7.
SAB 118 provides for a measurement period beginning in the reporting period that includes the Tax Act’s enactment date and ending when the Company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information needed in order to complete the accounting requirements but in no circumstances should the measurement period extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $128 thousand.
The tax expense for the six months ended March 31, 2018 was $974 thousand.
This included a provisional estimate in the amount of $649 thousand related to the one-time deemed repatriation transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings.
The Company also recorded a provisional estimate for a one-time tax expense of $490 thousand which consisted primarily of the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities from 34% to 21%.
These expenses were recorded discretely in the three months ended December 31, 2017.
The Company is using a blended federal rate of roughly 24% for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2018 and will use the 21% for periods after fiscal year 2018.
8.
Pension and Retirement Plans



The Company has defined benefit and defined contribution plans in the United Kingdom, Germany and the U.S.
In the United Kingdom and Germany, the Company provides defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans for some of its employees.
The U.S. supplemental retirement plans have life insurance policies which are not plan assets but were purchased by the Company as a vehicle to fund the costs of the plan.
The Company also provides for officer death benefits through post-retirement plans to certain officers of the Company in the U.S. All of the Company’s defined benefit plans are closed to newly hired employees and have been since September 2009.
The Company's pension plan in the United Kingdom is the only plan with plan assets.
The plan assets consist of an investment in a commingled fund which in turn comprises a diversified mix of assets including corporate equity securities, government securities and corporate debt securities.
10



The components of net periodic benefit costs related to the U.S. and international plans are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11



The fair value of the assets held by the U.K. pension plan by asset category are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



9.
Segment Information



The following tables present certain operating segment information for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017.
Non-operating charges/income consists principally of investment income and interest expense.
All intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
The following table lists customers from which the Company derived revenues in excess of 10% of total revenues for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, and 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In addition, accounts receivable from Customer A totaled approximately $2.7 million, or 12%, and approximately $2.4 million, or 9%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Accounts receivable from Customer B totaled approximately $6.6 million, or 29%, and approximately $3.9 million, or 14%, of total consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
One additional customer, C, accounted for accounts receivable of 10% or more, but did not account for revenue of 10% or more.
Accounts receivable from customer C totaled approximately $2.7 million, or 12%, of consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018.
No other customers accounted for 10% or more of total consolidated accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018.
10.
Dividends



On December 19, 2017, the Company's board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.11 per share which was paid on January 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of December 29, 2017, the record date.
On February 12, 2018, the Company's board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.11 per share which was paid on March 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2018, the record date.
11.
New accounting standards not adopted as of March 31, 2018 



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2018, and it does not plan to early adopt this ASU.
The standard outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within a contract are satisfied.
The standard also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
The Company has selected the modified retrospective approach as its transition method.
Because the new standard will impact our business processes, systems and controls, we are developing a comprehensive change management project plan to guide the implementation.
In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-11, Inventory (Topic 330) Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires entities to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value, except for inventory measured using last-in, first-out (LIFO) or the retail inventory method.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and requires prospective application, with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of an interim or annual reporting period.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset and lease liability for most lease arrangements.
The new standard is effective for the Company on October 1, 2019.
The standard mandates a modified retrospective transition method for all entities and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-08 (Topic 606), Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) to clarify the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations.
The amendments in this update provides additional guidance on indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service before it is transferred to the customer and does not change the core principle of previously issued guidance.
The amendments in this Topic are effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU will reduce diversity in practice for classifying cash payments and receipts in the statement of cash flows for a number of common transactions.
It will also clarify when identifiable cash flows should be separated versus classified based on their predominant source or use.
This ASU is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period.
If an entity early adopts the amendments in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period.
An entity that elects early adoption must adopt all of the amendments in the same period.
14



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires the seller and buyer to recognize at the transaction date the current and deferred income tax consequences of intercompany asset transfers (except transfers of inventory).
Under current GAAP, the seller and buyer defer the consolidated tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer from the period of the transfer to a future period when the asset is transferred out of the consolidated group, or otherwise affects consolidated earnings.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017.
An entity may early adopt the standard but only at the beginning of an annual period for which it has not issued or made available for issuance financial statements (interim or annual).
In January 2017, FASB issued ASU No.
2017-01, “Business Combinations Clarifying the Definition of a Business" (Topic 805) (“ASU No.
2017-01”).
ASU 2017-01 provides a framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
ASU 2017-01 is effective for interim and annual periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-07, Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, an amendment of the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
This ASU requires employers that sponsor defined benefit pension and/or other post-retirement benefit plans to report the service cost component of net benefit cost in the same line item as other compensation costs arising from services rendered by the pertinent employees during the period.
Additionally, only the service cost component of net periodic pension cost will be eligible for asset capitalization.
For public entities, the new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that annual period.
Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual period for which financial statements (interim or annual) have not been issued or made available for issuance.
This ASU should be applied retrospectively for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the income statement and prospectively, on and after the effective date, for the capitalization of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit in assets.
