Item 1.
Financial Statements



CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS - UNAUDITED



(In thousands, except per share amounts) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
3

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ‑ UNAUDITED



(In thousands of dollars) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
4

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In thousands of dollars)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
5

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS ‑ UNAUDITED



(In thousands of dollars)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
6

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Unaudited



(in thousands of dollars)



The following summarizes the changes in total equity for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
7

CTS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Unaudited (continued)



(in thousands of dollars)



The following summarizes the changes in total equity for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles have been omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The results of operations for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.
Changes in Accounting Principles



Beginning in January 2019, CTS adopted the provisions of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" under the optional transition method, which requires, if necessary, a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The lease liability is based on the present value of minimum lease payments discounted using our secured incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption.
Existing deferred rent liabilities, resulting from our historical practice of using the straight line method for recognizing lease expense, were reclassified upon adoption to reduce the measurement of the lease assets.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which among other things, allows us to carry forward the historical accounting relating to lease identification and classification for existing leases at adoption.
Our leases are classified as operating leases and expense is recorded in a manner similar to historical accounting guidance.
No adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings was required.
NOTE 2 – Revenue Recognition



The core principle of Topic 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance provides a five-step process to achieve that core principle:



•Identify the contract(s) with a customer



•Identify the performance obligations



•Determine the transaction price



•Allocate the transaction price



•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met



We recognize revenue when the performance obligations specified in our contracts have been satisfied, after considering the impact of variable consideration and other factors that may affect the transaction price.
Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract.
We usually expect payment within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
None of our contracts as of June 30, 2019, contained a significant financing component.
Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable.
11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 (1) Expected return on plan assets is net of expected investment expenses and certain administrative expenses.
Total restructuring charges is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In June 2016, we announced plans to restructure operations by phasing out production at our Elkhart facility and transitioning it into a research and development center supporting our global operations ("June 2016 Plan").
Additional organizational changes were also implemented in various other locations.
During the third quarter of 2017, we revised the June 2016 Plan.
The amendment added an additional $1,100 in planned costs related to the relocation of our corporate headquarters in Lisle, IL and our plant in Bolingbrook, IL, both of which have now been consolidated into a single facility.
The total restructuring liability related to severance and other one-time benefit arrangements under the June 2016 Plan was $501 at June 30, 2019, and $668 at December 31, 2018.
These restructuring actions were completed in 2015.
The remaining restructuring liability related to the April 2014 Plan was $701 at June 30, 2019, and $918 at December 31, 2018.
13

The following table displays the restructuring liability activity for all plans for the six months ended June 30, 2019: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Other activity includes the effects of currency translation, non-cash asset write-downs and other charges that do not flow through restructuring expense.
NOTE 9 – Accrued Liabilities



The components of accrued liabilities are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 10 – Commitments and Contingencies



Certain processes in the manufacture of our current and past products create by-products classified as hazardous waste.
Some sites, such as Asheville, North Carolina and Mountain View, California, are designated National Priorities List sites under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund program.
We record contingent loss accruals on an undiscounted basis.
A roll-forward of remediation reserves included in accrued liabilities on the balance sheet is comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Other activity includes currency translation adjustments not recorded through remediation expense.
NOTE 11 - Debt



Long-term debt is comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On February 12, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated five-year Credit Agreement with a group of banks (the "Credit Agreement") to extend the term of the facility.
The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility of $300,000, which may be increased by $150,000 at the request of the Company, subject to the administrative agent's approval.
This new unsecured credit facility replaces the prior $300,000 unsecured credit facility, which would have expired August 10, 2020.
Borrowings of $50,000 under the prior credit agreement were refinanced into the Credit Agreement.
The prior agreement was terminated as of February 12, 2019.
The Revolving Credit Facility includes a swing line sublimit of $15,000 and a letter of credit sublimit of $10,000.
Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus the applicable margin for base rate loans or London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus the applicable margin for LIBOR loans.
We also pay a quarterly commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility.
The commitment fee ranges from 0.20% to 0.30% based on the our total leverage ratio.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires, among other things, that we comply with a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio.
Failure to comply with these covenants could reduce the borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants at June 30, 2019.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that we deliver quarterly financial statements, annual financial statements, auditor certifications, and compliance certificates within a specified number of days after the end of a quarter and year.
Additionally, the Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictions limiting our ability to: dispose of assets; incur certain additional debt; repay other debt or amend subordinated debt instruments; create liens on assets; make investments, loans or advances; make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations; engage in certain transactions with our subsidiaries and affiliates; and make stock repurchases and dividend payments.
Interest rates on the Revolving Credit Facility fluctuate based upon the LIBOR and the Company’s quarterly total leverage ratio.
We have debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt that are being amortized using the straight-line method over the life of the debt.
Amortization expense was approximately $41 and $46 for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively and approximately $77 and $93 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We selectively use derivative financial instruments including foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to these risks.
The use of derivative financial instruments exposes the Company to credit risk, which relates to the risk of nonperformance by a counterparty to the derivative contracts.
We manage our credit risk by entering into derivative contracts with only highly rated financial institutions and by using netting agreements.
We assess hedge effectiveness qualitatively by verifying that the critical terms of the hedging instrument and the forecasted transaction continue to match, and that there have been no adverse developments that have increased the risk that the counterparty will default.
No recognition of ineffectiveness was recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019.
Foreign Currency Hedges



We use forward contracts to mitigate currency risk related to a portion of our forecasted foreign currency revenues and costs.
The currency forward contracts are designed as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
We continue to monitor the Company’s overall currency exposure and may elect to add cash flow hedges in the future.
At June 30, 2019, we had a net unrealized gain of $784 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, of which $784 is expected to be reclassified to income within the next 12 months.
At June 30, 2018 we had a net unrealized gain of $59 in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding was $8,625 at June 30, 2019.
Interest Rate Swaps



We use interest rate swaps to convert our revolving credit facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate.
As of June 30, 2019, we have agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt through August 2020.
The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.
These swaps are treated as cash flow hedges and consequently, the changes in fair value are recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income.
The estimated net amount of the existing gains that are reported in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income that are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months is approximately $235.
The location and fair values of derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2019, are shown in the following table: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company has elected to net its foreign currency derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet in accordance with ASC 210-20 (Balance Sheet, Offsetting).
On a gross basis, there were foreign currency derivative assets of $718 and foreign currency derivative liabilities of $0.
These hedges are designated as cash flow hedges, and we have deferred income statement recognition of gains and losses until the hedged transactions occur, at which time amounts are reclassified into earnings.
Further information related to our derivative financial instruments is included in Note 12 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 16 – Fair Value Measurements.
Unrealized gains (losses) on pension obligations are deferred from income statement recognition until the gains or losses are realized.
We are required to translate the subsidiary functional currency financial statements to dollars using a combination of historical, period-end, and average foreign exchange rates.
This combination of rates creates the foreign currency translation adjustment component of other comprehensive income.
Changes in exchange rates between the functional currency and the currency in which a transaction is denominated are foreign exchange transaction gains or losses.
Transaction losses for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2019 were $829 and $355, respectively and transaction losses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $2,194 and $918, respectively, which have been included in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
17

The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the three months ended June 30, 2019, are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the three months ended June 30, 2018, are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18

The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the six months ended June 30, 2019 are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income for the six months ended June 30, 2018 are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

NOTE 14 – Shareholders’ Equity



Share count and par value data related to shareholders’ equity are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On February 7, 2019, the Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program with a maximum dollar limit of $25,000 in stock repurchases, which replaced the previous program.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, 179,966 shares of common stock were repurchased for approximately $5,002, of which $567 was repurchased under the previous program and $4,435 was repurchased under the most recent board-authorized share repurchase plan.
Approximately $20,565 is available for future purchases.
A roll-forward of common shares outstanding is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Certain potentially dilutive restricted stock units are excluded from diluted earning per share because they are anti-dilutive.
The number of awards that were anti-dilutive for the six month periods ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018 were 108,894 and 72,658, respectively.
There were no outstanding anti-dilutive awards impacting the three month periods ended June 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
NOTE 15 - Stock-Based Compensation



At June 30, 2019, we had five active stock-based compensation plans: the Nonemployee Directors’ Stock Retirement Plan (“Directors’ Plan”), the 2004 Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan (“2004 Plan”), the 2009 Omnibus Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (“2009 Plan”), the 2014 Performance & Incentive Plan (“2014 Plan”), and the 2018 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan ("2018 Plan").
Future grants can only be made under the 2018 Plan.
The following table summarizes the status of these plans as of June 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Performance-Based Stock Options



During 2015 and 2016, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Committee”) granted a total of 350,000 performance-based stock option awards (“Performance-Based Option Awards”) for certain employees under the 2014 Plan, of which 250,000 remain outstanding after considering forfeitures.
The Performance-Based Option Awards have an exercise price of $18.37, a term of five years, and generally will become exercisable (provided the optionee remains employed by the Company or an affiliate) upon our attainment of at least $600,000 in revenues during any of our trailing four quarterly periods (as determined by the Committee) during the term.
21

Service-Based Restricted Stock Units



The following table summarizes the service-based RSU activity as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2019: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Performance and Market-Based Restricted Stock Units



The following table summarizes the performance and market-based RSU activity as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes each grant of performance awards outstanding at June 30, 2019.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units



Cash-Settled RSUs entitle the holder to receive the cash equivalent of one share of common stock for each unit when the unit vests.
These RSUs are issued to key employees residing in foreign locations as direct compensation.
Generally, these RSUs vest over a three-year period.
Cash-Settled RSUs are classified as liabilities and are remeasured at each reporting date until settled.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 we had 17,468 and 17,248 cash-settled RSUs outstanding, respectively.
At June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, liabilities of $211 and $300, respectively were included in Accrued liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
22

NOTE 16 — Fair Value Measurements



We use interest rate swaps to convert our Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate and foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the effect of foreign currency changes on certain revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies.
These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
There is a readily determinable market for these derivative instruments, but that market is not active and therefore they are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The table below provides a reconciliation of the recurring financial assets (liabilities) for our derivative instruments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



23

Our long-term debt consists of the Revolving Credit Facility which is recorded at its carrying value.
There is a readily determinable market for our long-term debt and it is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the market is not deemed to be active.
The fair value of long-term debt approximates carrying value and was determined by valuing a similar hypothetical coupon bond and attributing that value to our long-term debt under the Revolving Credit Facility.
NOTE 17 — Income Taxes



The effective tax rates for the three and six-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective income tax rate was 25.1% and 37.7% in the second quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
This decrease was primarily attributed to the 2018 withholding tax payment of $1,703 on a one-time distribution from Taiwan.
Our effective income tax rate was 22.7% and 30.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
This decrease was primarily attributed to the 2018 withholding tax payment of $1,703 on a one-time distribution from Taiwan.
NOTE 18 — Leases



We lease certain land, buildings and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases used in our operations.
Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term.
Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments over the lease term, discounted using an estimate of our secured incremental borrowing rate because none of our leases contain a rate implicit in the lease arrangement.
The operating lease assets and liabilities are adjusted to include the impact of any lease incentives and non-lease components.
We have elected not to separate lease and non-lease components, which include taxes and common area maintenance in some of our leases.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in lease payments using the prevailing index or rate in effect at lease commencement.
Options to extend or terminate a lease are included in the lease term when it is reasonably likely that we will exercise that option.
We have elected not to record leases with an initial term of 12 months or less on the balance sheet and instead recognize those lease payments on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease at its inception, which normally does not require significant estimates or judgments.
24

Total lease expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 is as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Remaining maturity of our existing lease liabilities as of June 30, 2019 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Operating lease payments include $4,615 of payments related to options to extend lease terms that are reasonably expected to be exercised.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



25

NOTE 19 — Recent Accounting Pronouncements



ASU 2018-14 "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General"



In August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No.
2018-14, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General."
This ASU modifies the disclosure requirements for defined benefit and other postretirement plans.
This ASU also clarifies disclosure requirements for projected benefit and accumulated benefit obligations.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020 and for interim periods therein with early adoption permitted.
Adoption on a retrospective basis for all periods presented is required.
ASU 2018-13 "Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement"



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13 "Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement".
This ASU modified the disclosures related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements.
Disclosures related to the transfer of assets between Level 1 and Level 2 hierarchies have been eliminated and various additional disclosures related to Level 3 fair value measurements have been added, modified or removed.
This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted upon issuance of the standard for disclosures modified or removed with a delay of adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date.
ASU 2016-16 "Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory"



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory".
This ASU is meant to improve the accounting for the income tax effect of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Currently, U.S. GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to a third party.
This ASU will now require companies to recognize the income tax effect of an intra-entity asset transfer (other than inventory) when the transaction occurs.
This ASU is effective for public companies, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within those annual reporting periods.
Early adoption is permitted and is to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption.
ASU 2016-13 "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments"



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the current accounting guidance and requires the measurement of all expected losses based on historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
The standard will become effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
Application of the amendments is through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date.
We plan to adopt this standard on the effective date and are currently evaluating the impact of this new standard on our financial statements.
26
