Item 2.
Overview



CTS Corporation (“CTS”, “we”, “our” or “us”) is a leading designer and manufacturer of products that Sense, Connect and Move.
We manufacture sensors, actuators, and electronic components in North America, Europe, and Asia, and provide engineered products to customers in the aerospace/defense, industrial, medical, telecommunications/IT, and transportation markets.
Results of Operations: First Quarter 2018 versus First Quarter 2017 



The following table highlights changes in significant components of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the quarters ended March 31, 2018, and March 31, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales were $113,530 in the first quarter of 2018, an increase of $13,376 or 13.4% from the first quarter of 2017.
Sales to automotive markets increased $7,912 or 11.9%.
Other sales increased $5,464 or 16.2%.
The Noliac acquisition, which was completed in May 2017, added $2,596 in sales for the quarter.
Changes in foreign exchange rates increased sales by $2,751 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar depreciating compared to the Euro and Chinese Renminbi and relating mostly to sales of automotive products.
Gross margin as a percent of sales was 33.9% in the first quarter of 2018 compared to 34.2% in the first quarter of 2017.
Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $17,372 or 15.3% of sales in the first quarter of 2018 versus $15,248 or 15.2% of sales in the first quarter of 2017.
The 2018 SG&A costs include amortization of intangibles and other operating costs associated with our Noliac acquisition.
Research and development expenses were $6,507 or 5.7% of sales in the first quarter of 2018 compared to $6,003 or 6.0% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2017.
Research and development expenses are focused on expanded applications of existing products and new product development as well as current product and process enhancements.
24

Restructuring charges were $1,195 or 1.1% of sales in the first quarter of 2018.
The charges were mainly for building and equipment relocation, severance, and travel costs related to the restructuring of certain operations as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan.
Restructuring charges were $777 or 0.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2017.
Operating earnings were $13,359 or 11.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2018 compared to operating earnings of $12,196 or 12.2% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2017 as a result of the items discussed above.
Other income in the first quarter of 2018 was principally driven by foreign currency translation gains, mainly due to the depreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro during the quarter.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective income tax rate was 24.5% and 30.6% in the first quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was primarily attributed to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018 and additional tax expense of $241 associated with measurement period adjustments to provisional amounts recorded in the prior year as allowed for under the guidance issued in Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



Cash and cash equivalents were $121,383 at March 31, 2018, and $113,572 at December 31, 2017, of which $115,167 and $112,531, respectively, were held outside the United States.
The increase in cash and cash equivalents of $7,811 was primarily driven by cash generated from operating activities of $20,154, which was partially offset by capital expenditures of $6,912, net long-term debt payments of $2,300, taxes paid on behalf of employees for equity awards of $1,423, and dividends paid of $1,318.
Total long-term debt was $74,000 as of March 31, 2018 and $76,300 as of December 31, 2017.
Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, defined as the sum of notes payable and long-term debt as a percentage of total debt and shareholders' equity, was 17.2% at March 31, 2018, compared to 18.2% at December 31, 2017.
Working capital increased by $8,880 during the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to increases in cash and cash equivalents and inventory as well as a decrease in accrued payroll and benefits, which were partially offset by higher accounts payable.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operating activities was $20,154 during the first three months of 2018.
Components of net cash provided by operating activities included net earnings of $11,548, depreciation and amortization expense of $5,483, other net non-cash items of $2,264, and the net cash inflow from changes in assets and liabilities of $859.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities for the first three months of 2018 was $6,912, driven entirely by capital expenditures.
25

Cash Flows from Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities for the first three months of 2018 was $5,041.
These cash outflows were the result of net long-term debt payments of $2,300, taxes paid on behalf of employees for equity awards in the amount of $1,423, and dividend payments of $1,318.
Capital Resources



Long‑term debt was comprised of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On August 10, 2015, we entered into a new five-year credit agreement (“Revolving Credit Facility”) with a group of banks in order to support our financing needs.
The Revolving Credit Facility originally provided for a credit line of $200,000.
On May 23, 2016, we requested and received a $100,000 increase in the aggregate revolving credit commitments under the existing credit agreement, which increased the credit line from $200,000 to $300,000.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires, among other things, that CTS comply with a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio.
Failure to comply with these covenants could reduce the borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants at March 31, 2018.
We use interest rate swaps to convert the Revolving Credit Facility’s variable rate of interest into a fixed rate.
In the second quarter of 2012, we entered into four separate interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017.
In the third quarter of 2012, we entered into four additional interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $25,000 of long-term debt for the periods January 2013 to January 2017.
In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three additional forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020.
The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.
In general, other than in Canada and the U.K., it has been our historical practice to permanently reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations.
We are still evaluating whether to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion in light of the Act and consider that conclusion to be incomplete under guidance issued by SAB 118.
If we subsequently change our assertion during the measurement period, we will account for the change in assertion as a change in estimate related to the enactment of the Act.
We have historically funded our capital and operating needs primarily through cash flows from operating activities, supported by available credit under our Revolving Credit Facility.
We believe that cash flows from operating activities and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months.
However, we may choose to pursue additional equity and debt financing to provide additional liquidity or to fund acquisitions.
26

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of CTS under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These principles require the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions.
We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available.
The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and evaluating our reported financial results.
Revenue Recognition



We recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled by applying the following five-step process specified in Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") Topic 606:



•Identify the contract(s) with a customer



•Identify the performance obligations



•Determine the transaction price



•Allocate the transaction price



•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met



Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract.
Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable.
Product Warranties



Provisions for estimated warranty expenses related to our automotive products are made at the time products are sold.
These estimates are established using a quoted industry rate.
We adjust our warranty reserve for any known or anticipated warranty claims as new information becomes available.
Accounts Receivable



We have standardized credit granting and review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including:



•Credit reviews of all new customer accounts,



•Ongoing credit evaluations of current customers,



•Credit limits and payment terms based on available credit information,



•Adjustments to credit limits based upon payment history and the customer's current credit worthiness,



•An active collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to the corporate financial officers, and;



•Limited credit insurance on the majority of our international receivables.
We reserve for estimated credit losses based on historical experience and specific customer collection issues.
Over the last three years, accounts receivable reserves have been approximately 0.2% to 0.7% of total accounts receivable.
We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio.
Inventories



We value our inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method, or net realizable value.
We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production requirements.
Over the last three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories have ranged from 13.8% to 19.5% of gross inventory.
We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the inventories.
27

Retirement Plans



Actuarial assumptions are used in determining pension income and expense and our pension benefit obligation.
We utilize actuaries from consulting companies in each applicable country to develop our discount rates that match high-quality bonds currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefit in order to provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due.
After considering the recommendations of our actuaries, we have assumed a discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and a rate of compensation increase in determining our annual pension income and expense and the projected benefit obligation.
During the fourth quarter of each year, we review our actuarial assumptions in light of current economic factors to determine if the assumptions need to be adjusted.
Valuation of Goodwill



Goodwill of a reporting unit is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.
Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, the following:



•Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value,



•Significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate,



•Adverse action or assessment by a regulator,



•Unanticipated competition,



•More-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of,



•Testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit, and



•Allocation of a portion of goodwill to a business to be disposed.
If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform an impairment test.
The test involves comparing the fair values of our reporting units with their carrying values.
We recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, but only to the extent of goodwill recognized.
We generally determine the fair value of our reporting units using two valuation methods: "Income Approach — Discounted Cash Flow Method" and "Market Approach — Guideline Public Company Method".
The approach defined below is based upon our last impairment test conducted as of October 1, 2016.
Under the "Income Approach — Discounted Cash Flow Method", the key assumptions include sales, cost of sales, and operating expense projections through the year 2021.
The fourth key assumption under this approach is the discount rate, which is determined by looking at current risk-free rates, current market interest rates and the evaluation of risk premium relevant to the business segment.
Under the "Market Approach — Guideline Public Company Method", we identified eight publicly traded companies which we believe have significant relevant similarities to CTS.
For these eight companies, we calculated a range of EBITDA multiples derived from the ratio of enterprise value to EBITDA and compared these multiples to the corresponding multiples for each of our reporting units.
Similar to the income approach discussed above, sales, cost of sales, operating expenses and growth rates were key assumptions utilized in developing projected EBITDA levels for each of our reporting units.
The market prices of CTS and the other guideline company's shares are also key assumptions as they are used to calculate enterprise value.
The results of these two methods are weighted based upon management's determination.
If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit's fair value, we perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of impairment loss, if any.
This involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill.
There have not been any significant changes to our impairment testing methodology other than updates to the assumptions to reflect the current market environment.
Based upon our latest assessment, we determined that our goodwill was not impaired as of October 1, 2017.
We will monitor future results and will perform a test if indicators trigger an impairment review.
Factors considered that may trigger an impairment review consist of, but are not limited to, the following:



•Significant decline in market capitalization relative to net book value,



•Significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results,



•Significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business,



•Significant negative industry or economic trends.
If we believe that one or more indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset or asset group.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value.
No indicators of impairment were identified as of March 31, 2018.
Significant judgments and estimates are required in the determination of the consolidated income tax expense.
ASC 740 states that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of its technical merits.
These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is available.
Therefore, a provision for the expected taxes on repatriation of those earnings was recorded.
We will continue to evaluate whether to repatriate all or a portion of the cumulative undistributed foreign earnings based on expansion needs and as circumstances change.
We are still evaluating whether to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion in light of the Act and consider that conclusion to be incomplete under guidance issued by SAB 118.
If we subsequently change our assertion during the measurement period, we will account for the change in assertion as a change in estimate related to enactment of the Act.
of CTS' Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
30
