Item 2.
Overview



CTS Corporation (“CTS”, “we”, “our” or “us”) is a leading designer and manufacturer of products that Sense, Connect and Move.
We manufacture sensors, actuators, and electronic components in North America, Europe, and Asia, and provide engineered products to customers in the aerospace/defense, industrial, medical, telecommunications/IT, and transportation markets.
Results of Operations: First Quarter 2019 versus First Quarter 2018 



The following table highlights changes in significant components of the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the quarters ended March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales were $117,625 in the first quarter of 2019, an increase of $4,095 or 3.6% from the first quarter of 2018.
Sales to transportation markets increased $4,537 or 6.1%.
Sales to other markets declined $442 or 1.1%.
Changes in foreign exchange rates decreased sales by $1,771 year-over-year due to the U.S. Dollar appreciating compared to the Chinese Renminbi and Euro and relating mostly to sales of products to the transportation end market.
Gross margin as a percent of sales was 34.5% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 33.9% in the first quarter of 2018.
The improvement was driven mainly by savings related to cost improvements and the manufacturing transition from Elkhart, Indiana, which were partially offset by material cost and wage increases.
Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $17,522 or 14.9% of sales in the first quarter of 2019 versus $17,372 or 15.3% of sales in the first quarter of 2018.
Research and development expenses were $6,791 or 5.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $6,507 or 5.7% of sales in the comparable quarter of 2018.
Research and development expenses are focused on expanded applications of existing products and new product development, as well as current product and process enhancements.
26

Restructuring charges were $2,084 or 1.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2019.
The charges were mainly for building and equipment relocation, severance, and travel costs related to the restructuring of certain operations as part of the 2016 Restructuring Plan.
Restructuring charges were $1,195 or 1.1% of sales in the first quarter of 2018.
Operating earnings were $14,218 or 12.1% of sales in the first quarter of 2019 compared to operating earnings of $13,359 or 11.8% of sales in the first quarter of 2018.
Other income and expense items are summarized in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest expense decreased mainly as a result of the reduction in debt year-over-year.
Interest income decreased due to lower cash balances.
Other income in the first quarter of 2019 was principally driven by foreign currency translation gains, mainly due to the depreciation of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Chinese Renminbi during the quarter, which was partially offset by pension expense.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our effective income tax rate was 20.0% and 24.5% in the first quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared with the same period in 2018, was primarily attributed to tax benefits recorded upon vesting of restricted stock units.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



Cash and cash equivalents were $100,708 at March 31, 2019, and $100,933 at December 31, 2018, of which $97,924 and $96,762, respectively, were held outside the United States.
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $225 was primarily driven by capital expenditures of $5,325, taxes paid on behalf of equity award participants of $2,637, dividends paid of $1,310 and treasury stock purchases of $849, which were partially offset by cash generated from operating activities of $9,593.
Total long-term debt was $50,000 as of March 31, 2019 and $50,000 as of December 31, 2018.
Total debt as a percentage of total capitalization, defined as long-term debt as a percentage of total debt and shareholders' equity, was 11.4% at March 31, 2019, compared to 11.7% at December 31, 2018.
Working capital increased by $9,355 during the three months ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to the decrease of accrued payroll and benefits and accrued liabilities.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operating activities was $9,593 during the first three months of 2019.
Components of net cash provided by operating activities included net earnings of $11,419, depreciation and amortization expense of $5,924, other net non-cash items of $3,395, and a net cash outflow from changes in assets and liabilities of $11,145.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities for the first three months of 2019 was $5,274, driven almost entirely by capital expenditures.
27

Cash Flows from Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities for the first three months of 2019 was $4,796.
These cash outflows were the result of taxes paid on behalf of equity award participants in the amount of $2,637, dividend payments of $1,310, and treasury stock purchases of $849.
Capital Resources



Long‑term debt is comprised of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On February 12, 2019, we entered into an amended and restated five-year Credit Agreement with a group of banks (the "Credit Agreement").
The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit facility of $300,000, which may be increased by $150,000 at the request of the Company, subject to the administrative agent's approval.
This new unsecured credit facility replaces the prior $300,000 unsecured credit facility, which would have expired August 10, 2020.
Borrowings of $50,000 under the prior credit agreement were refinanced into the Credit Agreement.
The prior agreement was terminated as of February 12, 2019.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires, among other things, that CTS comply with a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio.
Failure to comply with these covenants could reduce the borrowing availability under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We were in compliance with all debt covenants at March 31, 2019.
In the third quarter of 2016, we entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to fix interest rates on $50,000 of long-term debt for the periods August 2017 to August 2020.
The difference to be paid or received under the terms of the swap agreements will be recognized as an adjustment to interest expense when settled.
We have historically funded our capital and operating needs primarily through cash flows from operating activities, supported by available credit under our Revolving Credit Facility.
We believe that cash flows from operating activities and available borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to fund our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and debt service requirements for at least the next twelve months.
However, we may choose to pursue additional equity and debt financing to provide additional liquidity or to fund acquisitions.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates



Management prepared the consolidated financial statements of CTS under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These principles require the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions.
We believe that the estimates, judgments, and assumptions we used are reasonable, based upon the information available.
The following accounting policies comprise those that we believe are the most critical in understanding and evaluating our reported financial results.
28

Revenue Recognition



We recognize revenue upon the transfer of promised goods to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled by applying the following five-step process specified in Accounting Standard Codification ("ASC") Topic 606:



•Identify the contract(s) with a customer



•Identify the performance obligations



•Determine the transaction price



•Allocate the transaction price



•Recognize revenue when the performance obligations are met



Our contracts normally contain a single performance obligation that is fulfilled on the date of delivery based on shipping terms stipulated in the contract.
Contract assets will be reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable.
Product Warranties



Provisions for estimated warranty expenses primarily related to our automotive products are made at the time products are sold.
These estimates are established using a quoted industry rate.
We adjust our warranty reserve for any known or anticipated warranty claims as new information becomes available.
Over the last three years, product warranty reserves have ranged from 0.5% to 2.4% of total sales.
Accounts Receivable



We have standardized credit granting and review policies and procedures for all customer accounts, including:



•Credit reviews of all new customer accounts,



•Ongoing credit evaluations of current customers,



•Credit limits and payment terms based on available credit information,



•Adjustments to credit limits based upon payment history and the customer's current credit worthiness,



•An active collection effort by regional credit functions, reporting directly to the corporate financial officers, and;



•Limited credit insurance on the majority of our international receivables.
We reserve for estimated credit losses based on historical experience and specific customer collection issues.
Over the last three years, accounts receivable reserves have been approximately 0.3% to 0.7% of total accounts receivable.
We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quality of the portfolio.
Inventories



We value our inventories at the lower of the actual cost to purchase or manufacture using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method, or net realizable value.
We review inventory quantities on hand and record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of product demand and production requirements.
Over the last three years, our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories have ranged from 11.0% to 19.5% of gross inventory.
We believe our reserve level is appropriate considering the quantities and quality of the inventories.
Retirement Plans



Actuarial assumptions are used in determining pension income and expense and our pension benefit obligation.
We utilize actuaries from consulting companies in each applicable country to develop our discount rates that match high-quality bonds currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefit in order to provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due.
After considering the recommendations of our actuaries, we have assumed a discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and a rate of compensation increase in determining our annual pension income and expense and the projected benefit obligation.
During the fourth quarter of each year, we review our actuarial assumptions 



29

in light of current economic factors to determine if the assumptions need to be adjusted.
Valuation of Goodwill



Goodwill of a reporting unit is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount.
If we believe that one or more of the above indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform an impairment test.
We have the option to perform a qualitative assessment (commonly referred to as "step zero" test) to determine whether further quantitative analysis for impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is necessary.
If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances we determine that it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we do not need to perform a quantitative analysis.
If a quantitative assessment is required, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation methodologies.
Determining fair value using a quantitative approach requires significant judgment, including judgments about projected revenues, operating expenses, working capital investment, capital expenditures, and cash flows over a multi-year period.
The discount rate applied to our forecasts of future cash flows is based on our estimated weighted average cost of capital.
Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and impact the goodwill impairment assessment.
Our latest assessment was performed using a qualitative approach as of October 1, 2018, and we determined that it was likely that the fair values of our reporting units were more than their carrying amounts, and therefore no impairment charges were recorded.
We will monitor future results and will perform a test if indicators trigger an impairment review.
Impairment of Other Intangible and Long-Lived Assets



We evaluate the impairment of identifiable intangibles and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If we believe that one or more indicators of impairment have occurred, we perform a recoverability test by comparing the carrying amount of an asset or asset group to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and the eventual disposition of the asset or asset group.
If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value.
During the first quarter we recognized impairment charges of $854 related to the June 2016 Restructuring Plan.
No other indicators of impairment were identified during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
Significant judgments and estimates are required in the determination of consolidated income tax expense.
Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) No.
740 states that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of its technical merits.
These differences will be reflected as increases or decreases to income tax expense in the period in which new information is available.
Generally, outside of Canada and the United Kingdom, it has been our historical practice to permanently reinvest the earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations.
This transition tax substantially eliminated the basis difference that existed prior to the Tax Act.
We completed an evaluation of our indefinite reinvestment assertion as a result of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act during the fourth quarter of 2018 and decided not to reinvest the current year earnings of our primary operations, except for in the Czech Republic, Denmark, India, Mexico and Taiwan.
We intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the earnings in these non-U.S. subsidiaries.
of CTS' Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
32
