PART II-OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A.
Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.
Our joint venture for NAND flash memory products might not be successful.
On April 1, 2019, we launched a joint venture in Hong Kong with SK hynix system ic Inc. ("SKHS"), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SK hynix Inc. ("SKH"), a South Korean company.
The joint venture entity, SkyHigh Memory Limited ("SkyHigh") is controlled by SKHS.
We contributed our NAND flash memory business to the joint venture.
Upon launch, SkyHigh entered into a wafer supply agreement with SKH, and back-end manufacturing and transition services agreements with Cypress.
Any failure by SkyHigh to satisfy customer expectations could adversely impact our own relationships with such customers and/or the reputation of our brand.
Any failure by SkyHigh to meet its commitments to Cypress under our back-end manufacturing agreement could cause Cypress's assembly and testing facilities to be underutilized and could adversely affect Cypress's operating margins.
In addition, there can be no assurance that the joint venture will be profitable.
SkyHigh's governing documents do not require it to distribute its profits (if any) regularly, or at all (apart from a commitment to distribute to us our share of profit on a specified portion of sales through January 31, 2021).
We therefore face a risk that our investment might not generate meaningful cash flows to re-invest, for example, in higher-margin areas of our business.
Such risks could be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions, causing the value of this joint venture investment to decline and leading to impairment charges.
We have invested in certain privately-held companies.
There can be no guarantee that such businesses will perform as initially expected, launch new products and solutions as initially expected, or gain or maintain market acceptance.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we determined that our investment in Enovix Corporation, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, was other-than temporarily impaired as Enovix did not achieve key planned product development milestones.
Consequently, we recognized an impairment charge of $51.2 million related to our investment in Enovix, reducing its carrying value on our books to zero.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we determined that our investment in another equity investee, Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca"), was other-than temporarily impaired due to significant delays in Deca's commercialization and achievement of scalable production of certain key products, and consequently we recognized an impairment charge of $41.5 million to write down the carrying value of our investment in Deca to its estimated fair value as of the end of fiscal 2018.
In particular, there is a substantial risk that the carrying value of our investment in Deca may become further impaired.
Deca’s current and future revenues are dependent on a small number of significant customers.
Deca may need to secure additional funding to support its growth and cash needs.
Failure to secure such funding, if needed, will impact its ability to continue as a going concern.
Deca's management is currently working with its significant customers to secure their long-term commitment to use Deca's technology given the current downturn in the semiconductor industry, and is in the process of evaluating certain alternative strategic options.
As of March 31, 2019, the carrying value of our investment in Deca was $61.6 million.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



None.
ITEM 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.
ITEM 5.
OTHER INFORMATION



None.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS 



The documents listed below are filed (or furnished, as noted) as exhibits to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q:



41



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



42
