PART II-OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A.
Unless they materially change, risk factors in our Annual Report and Quarterly Reports are not repeated here, but are incorporated by reference herein.
The risks described in our reports are not the only risks facing our Company.
Geopolitical uncertainty, and changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, import and excise duties, taxes or other governmental rules and regulations could adversely our business and results of operations



A majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. Risks associated with international operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations, include:



•political instability, and the possibility of a deteriorating relationship with the United States;



•the imposition of new or modified international trade restrictions, tariffs, import and excise duties or other taxes;



•import and export requirements, including restrictions on sales to certain end customers;



•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments or on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;



•changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions;



•a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment in some countries, which, among other things, can create uncertainty regarding contract enforcement, intellectual property rights and liability issues; and



•inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The U.S. federal government or other governmental bodies may propose changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes and other government rules and regulations.
We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems or intergovernmental disputes.
Any determination that our operations or activities did not comply with applicable U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, interruptions of business, terminations of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal and equitable sanctions.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



None.
ITEM 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.
38



ITEM 5.
OTHER INFORMATION



None 



ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



+Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are being furnished and shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall such exhibits be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise specifically stated in such filing.
39
