ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
4



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
5



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
6



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
7



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



NOTE 1.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each contained 52 weeks.
The first quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on April 1, 2018 and the first quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on April 2, 2017.
Basis of Presentation



The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S.
GAAP”) and include the accounts of Cypress and all of its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
Certain balances included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
During the quarter ended April 1, 2018, the Company allocated the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and restructuring costs by function in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Consolidated Statement of Operations for the prior period has been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation as follow:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



The Company's significant accounting policies are described under Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



The following are the recent accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted that may materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial statements:



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases, ("Topic 842"), which replaces most current lease guidance when it becomes effective.
This standard update intends to 



8



increase the transparency and improve comparability by requiring entities to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for all leases, with certain exceptions.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities".
The amendments in ASU 2017-12 are intended to more closely align hedge accounting with companies’ risk management strategies, simplify the application of hedge accounting, and increase transparency as to the scope and results of hedging programs.
The guidance in ASU 2017-12 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted.
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
The guidance in ASU 2018-02 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



Adoption of ASC 606:



In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue from contracts with customers, ASU No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“Topic 606”).
This standard update outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods including interim reporting reports beginning after December 15, 2017.
Collectively, we refer to Topic 606, its related amendments and Subtopic 340-40 as the “new standard”.
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
There was no impact on the opening accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606.
The Company's revenue arrangements do not contain significant financing components.
Revenue is recognized over a period of time when it is assessed that performance obligations are satisfied over a period rather than at a point in time.
When any of the following criteria is fulfilled, revenue is recognized over a period of time:



(a)The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the performance as Cypress performs.
(b)Cypress’ performance creates or enhances an asset (for example, work in process) that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced.
(c)Cypress’ performance does not create an asset with an alternative use, and Cypress has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
These adjustment and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration.
We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenue recognized.
Our non-recurring engineering (“NRE”) contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
For NRE arrangements, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
If a customer pays consideration, or Cypress has a right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional before we transfer a good or service to the customer, those amounts are classified as deferred income/ advances received from customers which are included in other current liabilities or other long-term liabilities when the payment is made or it is due, whichever is earlier.
Other recently adopted pronouncements:



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Intra- Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.” For public entities, ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter fiscal 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18 Restricted Cash, which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows.
ASU 2016-18 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim periods within those periods) using a retrospective transition method to each period presented.
The Company adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-18 as of January 1, 2018.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-04, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment."
The standard eliminates the second step in the goodwill impairment test which requires an entity to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
Instead, an entity should recognize an impairment loss if the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, with the impairment loss not to exceed the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
The standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests conducted in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter fiscal 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting."
ASU 2017-09 amends the requirements in GAAP related to accounting for changes to stock compensation awards.
The guidance in ASU 2017-09 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter fiscal 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
10



Revision of prior period financial statements



During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, we identified and recorded certain immaterial errors that originated in fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016.
These errors consisted primarily of errors in certain assumptions and calculations used in the determination of non-cash stock-based compensation primarily relating to the Employee Share Purchase Program (“ESPP”).
For the three months ended April 1, 2018, we are presenting comparative fiscal 2017 quarterly information.
The fiscal 2017 results for the three months ended April 2, 2017 have been revised to reflect the quarterly impact of the adjustments described above.
BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS



Accounts Receivable, Net 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Inventories



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Current Assets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



13



Other Long-term Assets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Current Liabilities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Long-term Liabilities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 3.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS



The following table presents details of the Company's intangible assets:



14



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The below table presents details of the in-process research and development assets as of April 1, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the three months ended April 1, 2018, three projects representing $89.5 million of the total capitalized in-process research and development ("IPR&D"), with estimated useful lives of 5 years, had reached technological feasibility and were transferred to developed technology.
The following table summarizes the amortization expense by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The estimated future amortization expense related to developed technology and other intangible assets as of April 1, 2018 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 4.
15



Enovix Corporation ("Enovix")



During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company determined that its investment in Enovix, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, had suffered an other-than temporary impairment primarily because Enovix had not achieved certain key planned product development milestones.
Consequently, the Company recognized a charge of $51.2 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
The Company held 41.2% of Enovix's outstanding voting shares as of April 1, 2018.
Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca")



The Company held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The below table presents the changes in carrying value of the equity method investments related to Deca.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 5.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS



Assets/Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



The following tables present the fair value hierarchy for the Company's financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017:



16



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair value hierarchies during the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 related to these securities.
Valuation Techniques:



There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities.
For a description of the valuation techniques, refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis



Certain of the Company’s assets, including intangible assets, goodwill and cost-method investments, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis if impairment is indicated.
Fair Value of Long-term Debt



As of April 1, 2018, the carrying value of the Company's revolving credit facility was $63.0 million (See Note 8).
The carrying value of the Company's revolving credit facility approximates its fair value since it bears an interest rate that is comparable to rates on similar credit facilities and is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes assumed as part of the Company's merger with Spansion Inc. (Spansion"), which was completed on March 12, 2015 (the "Merger"), are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and are categorized as a Level 2 liability.
The principal of the Notes and the estimated fair value as of April 1, 2018 were $12.0 million and $38.5 million, respectively.
See Note 8 for further details.
The Company’s 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The principal of the Notes and the estimated fair value as of April 1, 2018 were $287.5 million and $391.7 million, respectively.
See Note 8 for further details.
17



The Company's 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The principal of the Notes and the estimated fair value of the principal as of April 1, 2018 were $150.0 million and $161.6 million, respectively.
See Note 8 for further details.
NOTE 6.
RESTRUCTURING



Since 2016, the Company has launched certain long-term strategic corporate transformation initiatives which have required certain restructuring activities to streamline our internal processes and redeploy personnel and resources to target markets as discussed below:



2018 Restructuring Plan



During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce ("2018 Plan") which will result in elimination of approximately 75 positions in various functions.
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $1.6 million will be paid out in cash through fiscal 2018.
2017 Restructuring Plan



In December 2017, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce ("2017 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 80 positions worldwide across various functions.
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $1.9 million will be paid out in cash through fiscal 2018.
2016 Restructuring Plan



In September 2016, the Company began the implementation of a reduction in workforce ("2016 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 430 positions worldwide across various functions.
No restructuring charges were recorded for the three months ended April 1, 2018 related to the 2016 Plan.
The personnel costs related to the 2016 Plan during the three months ended April 2, 2017 were $2.6 million.
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $0.3 million which consists of personnel costs will be paid out in cash through fiscal 2018.
Spansion Integration-Related Restructuring Plan ("Spansion Integration Plan")



In March 2015, the Company implemented cost reduction and restructuring activities in connection with the Merger.
No restructuring charges were recorded for the three months ended April 1, 2018 related to the Spansion Integration Plan.
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $10.6 million, which relates to an excess lease obligation, will be paid out in cash over the remaining lease term through fiscal 2026.
Summary of Restructuring Costs



The following table summarizes the restructuring charges recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the restructuring costs by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18



Roll-forward of the Restructuring Reserves



Restructuring activity under the Company's restructuring plans was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 7.
EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS AND STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION



The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, stock-based compensation capitalized in inventory totaled $2.4 million and $3.3 million, respectively.
The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense by type of awards:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, by type of awards:



19



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Equity Incentive Program



As of April 1, 2018, approximately 45.1 million stock options, or 25.1 million RSUs/PSUs were available for grant as share-based awards under the 2013 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan (formerly the Spansion 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan) and the 2012 Incentive Award Plan (formerly the Ramtron Plan).
As of April 1, 2018, there were 3.1 million shares of stock available for issuance under the ESPP plan.
Stock Options



The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activities: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



There were no options granted during the three months ended April 1, 2018.
Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units (“PSUs”)



The following table summarizes the Company's RSU/PSU activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2018 Long-Term Incentive Program



20



During the first quarter of 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Company approved the issuance of service-based and performance-based restricted stock units under the Company's Long-term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") to certain employees.
The milestones for the 2018 LTIP grants include service and performance conditions based on revenue growth, and profit milestones over the next 3 years.
A portion of the LTIP awards include a multiplier based certain market conditions.
NOTE 8.
DEBT



Total debt is comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of April 1, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants under all of its debt facilities.
Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B



On March 12, 2018, the Company amended and restated its Credit and Guaranty Agreement.
The amendment reduces the applicable margins on the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B.
After giving effect to the amendment, the Term Loan B bears interest, at the option of the Company, at the base rate plus an applicable margin of 1.25% or the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin of 2.25%.
The Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility bears interest, at the option of the Company, at the base rate plus an applicable margin of either 0.75% or 1.00%, depending on the Company's secured leverage ratio, or the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin of 1.75% or 2.00%, depending on the Company's secured leverage ratio.
The amendment removed the fixed charge coverage ratio financial covenants.
In addition, for Term Loan B, the amendment removed the total leverage ratio covenant and changed the required amortization payments to 1% per annum and waived the excess cash flow mandatory repayment for fiscal 2017.
As of April 1, 2018, $568.1 million aggregate principal amount of loans, including the revolving credit facility and Term Loan B, were outstanding under the Credit Facility.
2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes



Pursuant to the Merger, Cypress assumed Spansion's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes (the “Spansion Notes”) on March 12, 2015.
They are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company.
The Spansion Notes will mature on September 1, 2020, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1.
The Spansion Notes may be due and payable immediately in certain events of default.
On March 7, 2018, the Company entered into a privately negotiated agreement to induce the extinguishment of a portion of the Spansion Notes.
The Company paid the holders of the Spansion Notes cash for the aggregate principal of $10 million and delivered 1.4 million shares of common stock for the conversion spread.
The Company recorded $0.2 million in loss on extinguishment and a reduction in additional paid-in capital of $25.7 million towards the deemed repurchase of the equity component of the notes.
The loss on extinguishment is recorded in "Interest Expense" in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
21



The 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the components of the total interest on the Spansion Notes recognized as an expense:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes



On June 23, 2016, the Company issued, at face value, $287.5 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2022 (the “Notes”) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The Notes are governed by an Indenture (“Indenture”), dated June 23, 2016, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.
The Notes will mature on January 15, 2022, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 4.5% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15, commencing on January 15, 2017.
The Notes may be due and payable immediately in certain events of default.
The 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the components of the total interest expense related to the Notes recognized as expense:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



22



Capped Calls



In connection with the issuance of the Notes, the Company entered into capped call transactions with certain bank counterparties to reduce the risk of potential dilution of the Company’s common stock upon the exchange of the Notes.
The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment.
The capped calls expire in January 2022.
2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes



On November 6, 2017, the Company, issued at face value, $150.0 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2023 (the "2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are governed by an indenture ("2017 Indenture"), dated November 6, 2017, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.
The 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes will mature on February 1, 2023 unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually.
The 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the component of the total interest expense related to the 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes recognized as an expense:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Future Debt Payments



The future scheduled principal payments for the outstanding Company's debt as of April 1, 2018, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 9.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Operating Lease Commitments



23



The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through fiscal 2022 and thereafter.
Some leases include renewal options, which would permit extensions of the expiration dates at rates approximating fair market rental values at the time of the extension.
As of April 1, 2018, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restructuring accrual balances related to operating facility leases were $10.6 million and $11.5 million as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Product Warranties



The Company generally warrants its products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year and that product warranty is generally limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product or a replacement part.
The Company estimates its warranty costs based upon its historical warranty claim experience.
The allowance for sales returns is reviewed quarterly to verify that it reflects the remaining obligations based on the anticipated returns over the balance of the obligation period.
The following table presents the Company's warranty reserve activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contractual Obligations



The Company has entered into agreements with certain vendors that include “take or pay” terms.
Take or pay terms obligate the Company to purchase a minimum required amount of materials or services or make specified payments in lieu of such purchase.
The Company may not be able to consume minimum commitments under these take or pay terms, requiring payments to vendors, which may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s earnings.
16-cv-03714).
The other co-defendants are Apple Inc., Avago Technologies Limited, Broadcom Corporation, and Broadcom Limited.
Caltech alleges that defendants infringe four patents.
On July 12, 2017, the Court issued a claim construction order.
Due to the current stage of the proceedings, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the loss or the range of possible losses, if any.
The Company is currently a party to various other legal proceedings, claims, disputes and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business.
Indemnification Obligations



The Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify other parties to such agreements with respect to certain matters.
In these circumstances, payment by the Company is customarily conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the Company to challenge the other party’s claims and vigorously defend itself and the third party against such claims.
As of April 1, 2018, the Company had no reason to believe a loss exceeding amounts already recognized would be incurred.
NOTE 10.
The Company does not enter into derivative securities for speculative purposes.
The Company’s hedging policy is designed to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its operating results.
Some foreign currency forward contracts are considered to be economic hedges that were not designated as hedging instruments while others were designated as cash flow hedges.
Whether designated or undesignated as cash flow hedges or not, these forward contracts protect the Company against the variability of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from revenues, expenses and net asset or liability positions designated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
The maximum original duration of any contract allowable under the Company’s hedging policy is 13 months for foreign currency hedging contracts.
Cash Flow Hedges



The Company enters into cash flow hedges to protect non-functional currency inventory purchases and certain other operational expenses, in addition to its on-going program of cash flow hedges to protect its non-functional currency revenues against variability in cash flows due to foreign currency fluctuations.
The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges have maturities between three and twelve months.
All hedging relationships are formally documented, and the hedges are designed to offset changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions at the inception of the hedge.
The Company recognizes derivative instruments from hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measures them at fair value on a monthly basis.
The Company records changes in the intrinsic value of its cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the forecasted transaction occurs.
When the forecasted transaction occurs, the Company reclassifies the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue or costs, depending on the risk hedged.
At April 1, 2018, the Company has a gain of $0.9 million, which is related to cash flow hedge, recorded in other comprehensive income.
25



At April 1, 2018, the Company had outstanding forward contracts to buy approximately ¥1,785 million for $16.0 million.
In December 2017, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties, to swap variable interest payments on certain debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire on July 2021.
The objective of the swap was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs.
The interest rate on the variable debt becomes fixed in April 2018.
On January 3, 2018, the Company evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and has designated these swaps as hedging instruments.
Upon designation as cash flow hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income.
At April 1, 2018, the Company has a gain of $3.0 million, which is related to interest rate swaps, recorded in other comprehensive income.
The gross fair values of derivative instruments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



26



NOTE 11.
NOTE 12.
INCOME TAXES



The Company's income tax expense was $5.1 million and $4.9 million for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, respectively.
On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
For the three months ended April 1, 2018, the Company did not obtain any additional information affecting the provisional amount initially recorded at December 31, 2017.
Any subsequent adjustment to these amounts will be recorded to current tax expense in the quarter of 2018 in which the analysis is complete.
The Company intends to continue maintaining a full valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of these allowances.
As such, the Company may release a significant portion, or all, of its valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets within the next 12 months.
As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the amounts of accrued interest and penalties totaled $11.6 million and $11.0 million, respectively.
NOTE 13.
Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise for which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision-maker, or decision-making group, in making decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker ("CODM") is considered to be the Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, the Company does not allocate assets to its segments.
The Company excludes these items consistent with the manner in which it internally evaluates its results of operations.
28



Geographical Information



The following table presents revenues by geographical locations: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Property, plant and equipment, net, by geographic locations were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company tracks its assets by physical location.
Although management reviews asset information on a corporate level and allocates depreciation expense by segment, the Company’s CODM does not review asset information on a segment basis.
Customer Information



Outstanding accounts receivable from two of the Company's distributors accounted for 21.1% and 14.9% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of April 1, 2018.
Outstanding accounts receivable from one of the Company's distributors accounted for 28.0% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
Revenue earned through two of the Company's distributors accounted for 19.4% and 13.5% of its consolidated revenue for the three months ended April 1, 2018.
29



Revenue earned through one of the Company’s distributors accounted for 16.9% of its consolidated revenue for the three months ended April 2, 2017.
No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's revenues for the three months ended April 2, 2017.
NOTE 14.
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



The changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, by components are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 15.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS



In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchased from, or sold to several entities, for which one of its directors or executive officers also serves or served as a director or entities that are otherwise affiliated with one of the Company's directors or executive officers.
The following table provides the transactions with these parties for the indicated periods for the time period such parties were a related party of the Company:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, total receivable balances with these parties totaled $0.5 million and $3.8 million, respectively, and total payable balances with these parties totaled $8.9 million and $2.7 million, respectively.
ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 9 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A.
The U.S. federal government or other governmental bodies may propose changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes and other government rules and regulations.
