PART II-OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A.
Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.
The risks described in our Annual Report and this Quarterly Report are not the only risks we face.
Geopolitical uncertainty, and changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, import and excise duties, taxes, or other governmental rules and regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
A majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S. and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. Risks associated with international operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and/or results of operations, include:



•political instability, and the possibility of a deteriorating relationship with the United States;



•the imposition of new or modified international trade restrictions, tariffs, import and excise duties or other taxes;



•import and export requirements, including restrictions on sales to certain end customers;



•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, including potential intervention by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United Stated (CFIUS) or by other applicable administrative review boards to block strategic transactions that might otherwise be in shareholders’ interests;



•restrictions on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;



•changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions;



•a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment in some countries, which, among other things, can create uncertainty regarding contract enforcement, intellectual property rights and liability issues; and



•inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The U.S. federal government or other governmental bodies may propose changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes and other government rules and regulations.
Any changes to the international trading system, or the emergence of an international trade dispute, could significantly impact our business and have a negative impact on our revenues.
For example, our sales were impacted in the second quarter of 2018 when the U.S. Department of Commerce banned U.S. companies from providing exports to ZTE, a Chinese telecoms equipment manufacturer (which ban was subsequently lifted in the third quarter of 2018) in an export controls case.
Similarly, general trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July, August, and September 2018 (some of which prompted retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods) and with an additional U.S. tariff rate increase scheduled to take effect in January 2019.
Further rounds of tariffs have also been threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders.
Specifically, the August round imposed a 25% tariff on integrated circuits and the September round imposed a 10% tariff on modules, which will rise to 25% in January 2019.
For the third quarter of 2018 (when the tariffs were imposed late in the quarter) an immaterial amount of our revenue arose from products subject to such tariffs.
Assuming these tariffs remain in effect, we currently project that products subject to the tariffs will generate 



45



approximately 2% of our revenue for the fourth quarter of 2018.
These current and any future tariffs imposed by the U.S. on products assembled in China that we sell in the U.S. could negatively impact our U.S. sales.
•The August round of U.S. tariffs also imposed a 25% duty on imports of China-origin integrated circuit wafers, which are among the components we assemble into our products.
Although we import some such wafers for testing in the U.S., we then export them overseas for final assembly and/or distribution to customers.
Accordingly, we have been able to avoid the wafer tariff to date by use of the "temporary import bond" (or TIB) process established by U.S. Customs, which requires that we separately track each wafer to ensure that, within one year of import, it is either re-exported or destroyed.
If we fail to so track any such wafer, we would owe a double duty on the incoming shipment of which that wafer was a part.
In addition, upon any such failure, U.S. Customs could (and upon repeated extreme failures U.S. Customs likely would) disallow further use of the TIB process, which would materially increase our production costs.
In that case, we might be unable to secure alternate sources for wafers on a timely basis, or at all.
In the semiconductor industry, supply chain changes are complicated, time-consuming, and costly, and may disrupt longstanding business relationships that are otherwise advantageous.
•Apart from wafers, the current U.S. tariffs cover only a small fraction of the materials we utilize for manufacturing of our products.
•We believe the U.S. tariffs may cause customers to delay orders as they evaluate where to take delivery of our products in connection with their efforts to mitigate their own tariff exposure.
Such delays create forecasting difficulties for us and increase the risk that orders might be canceled or might never be placed.
•Some of our customers embed our products in finished goods they manufacture in China for import to the U.S. Current or future tariffs imposed by the U.S. on such goods could negatively impact our customers' sales, thereby causing an indirect negative impact on our own sales.
•To date, China's retaliatory tariffs have generally focused on other industries.
However, if China were to impose tariffs on the products we sell in China, or on the finished goods our customers sell in China, such tariffs (and/or the market's related uncertainty and apprehension) could directly or indirectly reduce demand for our products, negatively impacting our sales.
We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems or intergovernmental disputes.
Any determination that our operations or activities did not comply with applicable U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, interruptions of business, terminations of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal and equitable sanctions.
Problems in the performance or availability of these companies could seriously harm our financial performance.
We rely significantly on independent contractors to manufacture, which includes assembly and testing of, our products.
If market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements.
In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by any such foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity raises the likelihood of potential shortages and wafer price increases.
Our operations would be disrupted if any of our foundry partners terminates its relationship with us, delays its shipments to us, or experiences financial difficulty and we are unable to arrange a satisfactory alternative to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and in a cost-effective manner.
If we need to engage alternate sources of supply, such sources may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.
Due to the difficulty of engaging alternate sources of supply, if any of our key manufacturing facility partners experiences financial difficulties, we may accelerate purchases or commit to increase our purchases in order to build up inventories as a precautionary measure; however, this approach might increase our inventory carrying costs and expose us to inventory risks.
Shipments could be delayed significantly while these sources are engaged and qualified for volume production.
While many of our products are assembled, packaged and tested at our manufacturing facilities located in the Philippines and Thailand, we rely on independent subcontractors to assemble, package and test the balance of our products.
We cannot be certain that these subcontractors will continue to assemble, package and test products for us on acceptable economic and quality terms or at all and it might be difficult for us to find alternatives if they do not do so.
Our foundry partners and assembly and test subcontractors have operations in locations that may suffer the impact of certain natural disasters and political risk, which could impact their ability to provide us with our products.
We monitor these events closely, but if one of our third-party manufacturing partners were to suffer significant damage to its operations as a result of a natural disaster or other catastrophic events, our ability to timely meet consumer demand would suffer which would materially harm our results of operations.
We also rely on channel partners, including distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives.
We continue to expand and change our relationships with our channel partners.
Worldwide sales through our distributors accounted for approximately 73% of our revenue in fiscal year 2017.
We rely on many channel partners to assist us in creating customer demand, providing technical support and other value-added services to our customers, filling customer orders, and stocking our products.
We face ongoing business risks due to our reliance on our channel partners to create and maintain customer relationships where we have a limited or no direct relationship.
Should our relationships with our channel partners or their effectiveness decline, or as we choose to terminate some channel partner relationships from time to time, we face the risk of declining demand which could affect our revenue and results of operations.
Our contracts with our distributors may be terminated by either party upon notice.
The termination of a significant distributor, reseller, or sales representative could (a) impact our revenue and limit our access to certain end customers, (b) result in the return of a material amount of inventory held by a terminated distributor or reseller that we may not be able to resell or have to resell at a loss, and (c) jeopardize our ability to collect accounts receivable originating through a terminated distributor or reseller.
In addition, our distributors are located all over the world and vary in size and financial strength.
We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers’ facilities.
Transport or delivery problems due to their error or because of unforeseen interruptions in their business due to factors such as strikes, political instability, terrorism, natural disasters or accidents could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and ultimately impact our relationship with our customers.
Finally, our customers source a variety of materials from various suppliers in addition to Cypress.
For example, in 2018 a shortage of multi-layer ceramic capacitors, or MLCCs (a necessary component on many printed circuit boards), has created challenges for manufacturers in multiple end markets.
To the extent our customers experience shortages of necessary materials, they may be forced to slow production of their end products, with a corresponding decline in the rate at which they purchase materials from us.
If we decide to divest a business, product line, or assets, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing such divestiture opportunity (or alternative exit strategy) on acceptable terms or in a timely manner.
In addition, any delay in the timing of a divestiture transaction may negatively impact our business operations or liquidity for a period of time.
Alternatively, we may dispose of businesses, product lines, or assets at prices or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords, or other third parties.
Accordingly, we may be dependent on the new owner (of such business, product line or manufacturing facility) to fulfill our continuing obligations to our customers.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the divested assets or businesses.
We may also incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impairment charges, or both.
One type of divestiture is contribution of the applicable business, product lines, or assets to a joint venture in exchange for an interest in the venture, which exposes us to the risk that the joint venture might decline in value or not meet desired objectives.
The success of joint venture investments depends on various factors over which Cypress might have limited or no control and requires ongoing and effective cooperation with strategic partners.
Such risks could be exacerbated by unfavorable financial market and macroeconomic conditions and, as a result, the value of any joint venture investment could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



The table below summarizes information with respect to repurchases of common stock made in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 under the $450 million stock buyback program, which was announced on October 20, 2015.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



ITEM 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES



None.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.
48



ITEM 5.
OTHER INFORMATION



None.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



+Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 are being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall such exhibits be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise specifically stated in such filing.
49
