ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
4



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
5



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
6



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
7



CYPRESS SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



NOTE 1.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES



Fiscal Years



Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Cypress" or the "Company") reports on a fiscal-year basis.
The Company ends its quarters on the Sunday closest to the end of the applicable calendar quarter, except in a 53-week fiscal year, in which case the additional week falls into the fourth quarter of that fiscal year.
Fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each contain(ed) 52 weeks.
The third quarter of fiscal 2018 ended on September 30, 2018 and the third quarter of fiscal 2017 ended on October 1, 2017.
Basis of Presentation



The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and include the accounts of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature, which are necessary to state fairly the financial information included therein.
These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in Cypress' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The year-end condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP.
Certain balances included on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
Beginning fiscal year 2018, the Company allocated the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, restructuring costs and certain other expenses by function in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Consolidated Statements of Operations for the prior comparative periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation as follow:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* See "Revision of prior period financial statements" below.
8



Results reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



The Company's significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)," which replaces most current lease guidance when it becomes effective.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, "Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements," which provides clarifications and improvements to ASU 2016-02 including allowing entities to elect an additional transition method that permits changes to be applied by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment recorded in retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.
Consequently, an entity’s reporting for the comparative periods presented in the year of adoption would continue to be in accordance with ASC 840, Leases (Topic 840) ("ASC 840"), including the disclosure requirements of ASC 840.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company has developed a project plan to facilitate the implementation of ASU 2016-02.
The Company continues to make progress on this plan which includes reaching out to the Company’s businesses, as well as assessing the Company’s portfolio of active leases.
The Company has also selected a lease accounting software solution to support the new reporting requirements and continues to make progress on its configuration and assessing the design of the future lease process.
While the Company has not yet completed its evaluation of the impact the new lease accounting guidance will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company expects to recognize right of use assets and lease liabilities for its operating leases, which will have a material impact on the Consolidated Balance Sheet upon adoption.
Upon adoption, the Company expects that its financial statement disclosures will be expanded to present additional details of its leasing arrangements.
The Company is currently evaluating internal controls that would be impacted by the new guidance, to ensure readiness for adoption in the first fiscal quarter of 2019.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities."
The amendments in ASU 2017-12 are intended to more closely align hedge accounting with companies’ risk management strategies, simplify the application of hedge accounting, and increase transparency as to the scope and results of hedging programs.
The guidance in ASU 2017-12 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
The guidance in ASU 2018-02 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and for interim periods within those fiscal years, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-07, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting."
The standard expands the scope of ASC 718 to include all share-based payment arrangements related to the acquisition of goods and services from both nonemployees and employees.
Under the amended guidance, equity-classified share-based payment awards issued to nonemployees will be measured at grant date fair value.
Upon transition, the entity is required to remeasure these nonemployee awards at fair value as of the adoption date.
The improvement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
9



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13, "Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement."
The standard modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements in Topic 820 by removing the requirement to disclose the reasons for transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and the policy for timing of such transfers.
The standard expands the disclosure requirements for Level 3 fair value measurement, primarily focused on changes in unrealized gains and losses included in other comprehensive income.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-14, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans."
It is designed to improve the effectiveness of disclosures by removing and adding disclosures related to defined benefit plans.
The update is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020 with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact that the adoption of this standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



Adoption of ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers:



In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue from contracts with customers, ASU No.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)."
This standard update outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within those fiscal years.
Collectively, we refer to ASU No.
2014-09, its related amendments, and Subtopic 340-40 as "Topic 606."
On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 using the modified retrospective method applied to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of initial application (i.e., January 1, 2018).
Results for reporting periods after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting under Topic 605.
There was no impact on the opening accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018 due to the adoption of Topic 606.
We reclassified the sales return reserve to current liabilities presented as "Price adjustment and other revenue reserves" from the allowance for accounts receivable due to the adoption of Topic 606.
Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Sales of products with alternative use account for the majority of our revenue and are recognized at a point in time, the timing of such recognition remained the same under Topic 606.
The Company's revenue arrangements do not contain significant financing components.
Revenue is recognized over a period of time when it is assessed that performance obligations are satisfied over a period rather than at a point in time.
When any of the following criteria is fulfilled, revenue is recognized over a period of time:



(a)The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the performance as Cypress performs.
(b)Cypress’ performance creates or enhances an asset (for example, work in process) that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced.
(c)Cypress’ performance does not create an asset with an alternative use, and Cypress has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
We then select an appropriate method for measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation, usually costs incurred to date relative to the total expected costs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation.
These adjustments and allowances are accounted for as variable consideration.
We estimate these amounts based on the expected amount to be provided to customers and reduce revenue recognized.
Our non-recurring engineering ("NRE") contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
For NRE arrangements, we allocate revenue to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
IP revenue recognition is dependent on the nature and terms of each agreement.
We recognize IP revenue upon delivery of the IP if we have no substantive future obligation to perform under the arrangement.
If a customer pays consideration, or Cypress has a right to an amount of consideration that is unconditional before we transfer a good or service to the customer, those amounts are classified as deferred income/ advances received from customers which are included in other current liabilities or other long-term liabilities when the payment is made or it is due, whichever is earlier.
Practical Expedients and Elections



Sales commissions are owed and are recorded at the time of sell-through of our products to end customers.
We do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected length of one year or less and (ii) contracts for which we recognize revenue at the amount to which we have the right to invoice for services performed.
Other Recently Adopted Pronouncements:



In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory."
For public entities, ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, "Restricted Cash," which requires amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents to be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the total beginning and ending amounts for the periods shown on the statement of cash flows.
ASU 2016-18 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim periods within those periods) using a retrospective transition method to each period presented.
The Company adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-18 as of January 1, 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-04, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment."
The standard eliminates the second step in the goodwill impairment test which requires an entity to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill.
Instead, an entity should recognize an impairment loss if the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, with the impairment loss not to exceed the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
The standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests conducted in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-03, "Technical Corrections and Improvements to Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities."
The corrections and improvements are effective for the Company for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2018.
The Company adopted this guidance in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting."
ASU 2017-09 amends the requirements in GAAP related to accounting for changes to stock-based compensation awards.
The guidance in ASU 2017-09 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements



During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, the Company identified and recorded certain immaterial errors that originated in fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016.
These errors consisted primarily of errors in certain assumptions and calculations used in the determination of non-cash stock-based compensation primarily relating to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP").
The Company determined that the errors were not material to the previously issued financial statements and disclosures included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 or for any quarterly periods included therein.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company is presenting comparative fiscal 2017 quarterly information.
The fiscal 2017 results for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 have been revised to reflect the quarterly impact of the adjustments described above.
The effect of the immaterial corrections on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of the immaterial corrections on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of the immaterial corrections on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the nine months ended October 1, 2017 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



13



The effect of the immaterial corrections on the disclosures related to stock-based compensation for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 2.
REVENUE



The following table presents the Company's revenue disaggregated by revenue source, segment and geographical locations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Non-product revenue primarily includes royalty, NRE, and patent revenues.
14



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 3.
BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS



Accounts Receivable, Net 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Inventories



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



15



Other Current Assets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Long-term Assets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Current Liabilities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



16



Other Long-term Liabilities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 4.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS



On August 14, 2018, the Company acquired an embedded software company focused on the internet of things (or "IoT") market for cash consideration of $3 million.
The purchase consideration was allocated to acquired developed technology.
Pro forma results of operations of the acquired company have not been presented because the effect of the acquisition was not material.
The following table presents details of the Company's intangible assets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The below table presents details of the in-process research and development ("IPR&D") assets as of September 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the three months ended September 30, 2018, two projects representing $34.0 million of the total capitalized IPR&D, with estimated useful lives of 4 years, reached technological feasibility and were transferred to developed technology.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, five projects representing $123.6 million of the total capitalized IPR&D, with estimated useful lives of 4 - 5 years, reached technological feasibility and were transferred to developed technology.
The following table summarizes the amortization expense by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



17



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The estimated future amortization expense related to developed technology and other intangible assets as of September 30, 2018 is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 5.
Enovix Corporation ("Enovix")



During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company determined that its investment in Enovix, which is accounted for as an equity method investment, had suffered an other-than temporary impairment primarily because Enovix had not achieved certain key planned product development milestones.
Consequently, the Company recognized a charge of $51.2 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, reducing its carrying value to zero as of December 31, 2017.
The Company held 27.9% of Enovix's outstanding voting shares as of September 30, 2018.
Deca Technologies Inc. ("Deca")



The estimated fair value of the Company’s investment in Deca approximates carrying value of the Company’s investment in Deca as of September 30, 2018.
Deca continues to be in the process of developing and testing a fan-out wafer level packaging technology.
Deca’s estimated enterprise value is sensitive to its ability to achieve these product development and testing milestones.
The Company held 52.5% of Deca's outstanding voting shares as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The Company's investment in Deca is accounted for as an equity method investment.
The below table presents the changes in carrying value of the equity method investment related to Deca.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18



The following table presents summarized aggregate financial information derived from the respective consolidated financial statements of Deca for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and of Deca and Enovix for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table represents the assets and liabilities held by Deca as of September 30, 2018, and by Deca and Enovix as of December 31, 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 6.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS



Assets/Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



The following table presents the fair value hierarchy for the Company's financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017:



19



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company did not have any material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Valuation Techniques:



There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the Company's assets and liabilities.
For a description of the valuation techniques, refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis



Certain of the Company’s assets, including intangible assets, goodwill and cost-method investments, are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis if impairment is indicated.
Fair Value of Long-Term Debt



As of September 30, 2018, the carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility was $468.3 million (See Note 9).
The carrying value of the Company's senior secured credit facility approximates its fair value since it bears an interest rate that is comparable to rates on similar credit facilities and is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The Company's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes assumed as part of the Company's merger with Spansion Inc. ("Spansion"), which was completed on March 12, 2015 (the "Merger"), are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and are determined using Level 2 inputs.
The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of September 30, 2018 were $12.0 million and $34.6 million, respectively.
See Note 9 for further details.
The Company’s 4.5% 2022 Senior Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market for debt instruments and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of September 30, 2018 were $287.5 million and $362.6 million, respectively.
See Note 9 for further details.
20



The Company's 2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes are traded in the secondary market and the fair value is determined using Level 2 inputs.
The principal and the estimated fair value of the principal of these notes as of September 30, 2018 were $150.0 million and $149.0 million, respectively.
See Note 9 for further details.
NOTE 7.
RESTRUCTURING



Since 2016, the Company has launched certain long-term strategic corporate transformation initiatives which required restructuring activities to streamline internal processes and redeploy personnel and resources to target markets as discussed below:



2018 Restructuring Plan 



During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2018 Plan") which will result in elimination of approximately 75 positions across various functions.
Additionally as part of the 2018 Plan, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company increased the reduction in workforce by approximately 50 positions across various functions.
The restructuring costs of $0.2 million and $3.4 million during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, consist of personnel costs.
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $1.0 million will be paid out in cash through the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
2017 Restructuring Plan



In December 2017, the Company began implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2017 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 80 positions worldwide across various functions.
A restructuring cost of $2.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, consists of personnel costs.
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $30 thousand will be paid out in cash through the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
2016 Restructuring Plan



In September 2016, the Company began the implementation of a reduction in workforce (the "2016 Plan") which resulted in the elimination of approximately 430 positions worldwide across various functions.
No restructuring cost was recorded for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to the 2016 Plan.
There was no restructuring cost related to the 2016 Plan during the three months ended October 1, 2017.
The Company had paid out the remaining restructuring cost of $0.5 million, which consisted of personnel costs, by July 1, 2018.
Spansion Integration-Related Restructuring Plan ("Spansion Integration Plan")



In March 2015, the Company implemented cost reduction and restructuring activities in connection with the Merger.
As part of this restructuring plan, the Company exited an office space leased by Spansion and had recorded a reserve related to excess lease obligation for the building.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company began negotiating a termination agreement with the building’s owner and, consequently, in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recorded $9.8 million of additional restructuring reserve based on estimated termination costs.
The Company anticipates that the remaining restructuring accrual balance of $19.0 million, which is recorded as part of Other Current Liabilities in the Condensed Balance Sheet, will be paid out in cash through the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Summary of Restructuring Costs



The following table summarizes the restructuring charges recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



21



The following table summarizes the restructuring costs by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Roll-Forward of the Restructuring Reserves



Restructuring activity under the Company's restructuring plans was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 NOTE 8.
EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS AND STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION



The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense by line item recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, stock-based compensation capitalized in inventory totaled $3.0 million and $3.3 million, respectively.
22



The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense by type of awards:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, by type of award as of September 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Equity Incentive Program



As of September 30, 2018, approximately 38.4 million stock options, or 21.6 million RSUs and PSUs, were available for grant as stock-based awards under the 2013 Stock Plan, the 2010 Equity Incentive Award Plan and the 2012 Incentive Award Plan.
As of September 30, 2018, there were 1.9 million shares of stock available for issuance under the ESPP plan.
Stock Options



The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activities: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



No options were granted during the three or nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.
23



RSUs and PSUs



The following table summarizes the Company's RSU and PSU activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2018 Long-Term Incentive Program



During the first quarter of 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the issuance of service-based and performance-based restricted stock units under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Program ("LTIP") to certain employees.
The milestones for the 2018 LTIP grants include service and performance conditions based on revenue growth and profit milestones over the next 3 years.
A portion of the LTIP awards include a multiplier based on certain market conditions.
24



NOTE 9.
DEBT



Total debt is comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants under all of its debt facilities.
Senior Secured Credit Facility: Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B



On March 12, 2018, the Company amended its Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, which governs the Senior Secured Credit Facility.
The amendment reduces the applicable margins on the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan B.
After giving effect to the amendment, the Term Loan B bore interest, at the option of the Company, at the base rate plus an applicable margin of 1.25% or the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin of 2.25%; and the Revolving Credit Facility bears interest, at the option of the Company, at the base rate plus an applicable margin of either 0.75% or 1.00%, depending on the Company's secured leverage ratio, or the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin of 1.75% or 2.00%, depending on the Company's secured leverage ratio.
The amendment removed the fixed charge coverage ratio financial covenants.
In addition, for Term Loan B, the amendment removed the total leverage ratio covenant, changed the required amortization payments to 1% per annum, and waived the excess cash flow mandatory repayment for fiscal 2017.
On September 13, 2018, the Company again amended its Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement.
The amendment reduces the applicable margin for Term Loan B.
After giving effect to the amendment, Term Loan B will bear interest, at the option of the Company, at the base rate plus an applicable margin of 1.00% or the Eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin of 2.00%.
As part of the transaction the Company repaid $25.0 million of outstanding Term Loan B principal.
As of September 30, 2018, $477.6 million aggregate principal amount of loans, all of which related to Term Loan B, were outstanding under the senior secured credit facility.
2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes



Pursuant to the Merger, Cypress assumed Spansion's 2% 2020 Spansion Exchangeable Notes (the "Spansion Notes").
The Spansion Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company.
The Spansion Notes will mature on September 1, 2020, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on March 1 and September 1.
The Spansion Notes may be due and payable immediately upon certain events of default.
On March 7, 2018, the Company entered into a privately negotiated agreement to induce the extinguishment of $10 million of the remaining $22 million of Spansion Notes outstanding.
The Company paid the holders of the Spansion Notes cash for the aggregate principal of $10 million and delivered 1.4 million shares of common stock for the conversion spread.
The Company 



25



recorded $0.2 million in loss on extinguishment and a reduction in additional paid-in capital of $25.7 million towards the deemed repurchase of the equity component of the notes.
The loss on extinguishment is recorded in "Interest Expense" in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Spansion Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the components of the total interest expenses on the Spansion Notes recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 4.5% 2022 Exchangeable Notes



 On June 23, 2016, the Company issued, at face value, $287.5 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2022 (the "2022 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The 2022 Notes are governed by an indenture, dated June 23, 2016, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.
The 2022 Notes will mature on January 15, 2022, unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 4.5% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15, commencing on January 15, 2017.
The 2022 Notes may be due and payable immediately in certain events of default.
The 2022 Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the components of the total interest expense related to the 2022 Notes recognized as expense:



26



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Capped Calls



In connection with the issuance of the 2022 Notes, the Company entered into capped call transactions with certain bank counterparties to reduce the risk of potential dilution of the Company’s common stock upon the exchange of the 2022 Notes.
The capped call transactions have an initial strike price of approximately $13.49 and an initial cap price of approximately $15.27, in each case, subject to adjustment.
The capped calls expire in January 2022.
2% 2023 Exchangeable Notes



On November 6, 2017, the Company, issued at face value, $150.0 million of Senior Exchangeable Notes due in 2023 (the "2023 Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
The 2023 Notes are governed by an indenture, dated November 6, 2017, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.
The 2023 Notes will mature on February 1, 2023 unless earlier repurchased or converted, and bear interest of 2% per year payable semi-annually.
The 2023 Notes consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the component of the total interest expense related to the 2023 Notes recognized as an expense:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Capital Lease Commitments



In June 2018, the Company entered into a capital lease agreement for equipment.
The lease has a term of 5 years through June 2023.
Additionally, the Company had certain capital lease arrangements related to certain equipment at its Austin manufacturing facility.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company recorded a capital lease obligation of approximately $9.4 million.
27



Future Debt Payments



The future scheduled principal payments for the Company's outstanding debt as of September 30, 2018, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 10.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Operating Lease Commitments



The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through fiscal 2022 and thereafter.
Some leases include renewal options, which would permit extensions of the expiration dates at rates approximating fair market rental values at the time of the extension.
As of September 30, 2018, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restructuring accrual balances related to operating facility leases were $19.0 million and $11.5 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Product Warranties



The Company generally warrants its products against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of one year, and that product warranty is generally limited to a refund of the original purchase price of the product or a replacement part.
The Company estimates its warranty costs based upon its historical warranty claim experience.
The allowance for sales returns is reviewed quarterly to verify that it reflects the remaining obligations based on the anticipated returns over the balance of the obligation period.
The following table presents the Company's warranty reserve activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



28



Contractual Obligations



The Company has entered into agreements with certain vendors that include "take or pay" terms.
Take or pay terms obligate the Company to purchase a minimum required amount of materials or services or make specified payments in lieu of such purchase.
The Company may not be able to consume minimum commitments under these take or pay terms, requiring payments to vendors, which may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s earnings.
Litigation and Asserted Claims



On August 15, 2016, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by the California Institute of Technology ("Caltech") against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California (Case No.
16-cv-03714).
The other co-defendants are Apple Inc., Avago Technologies Limited, Broadcom Corporation, and Broadcom Limited.
Caltech alleged that defendants infringe four patents.
On September 7, 2018, the claims against the Company were dismissed with prejudice and, accordingly, this matter is considered closed.
In addition, the Company is currently involved in various other legal proceedings, claims, and disputes arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property claims and other matters.
Amounts accrued as of September 30, 2018 were not material.
Indemnification Obligations



The Company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify other parties to such agreements with respect to certain matters.
With respect to the sale of a manufacturing facility or subsidiary business, such indemnification may also cover tax matters and the Company's management of the facility or business prior to the sale.
In the foregoing circumstances, payment by the Company is customarily conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the Company to challenge the other party’s claims and vigorously defend itself and the other party against related third-party claims.
Further, the Company's obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time, amount or the scope of its responsibility and in some instances, the Company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made under these agreements.
It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company's obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
NOTE 11.
FOREIGN CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES



The Company enters into multiple foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency risk resulting from fluctuations in Japanese yen (¥) and Euro (€) exchange rates.
In addition, the Company entered into fixed-for-interest rate forward swap agreements and has designated these swaps as hedging instruments.
The Company does not enter into derivative securities for speculative purposes.
The Company’s hedging policy is designed to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on its operating results.
Some foreign currency forward contracts are considered to be economic hedges that were not designated as hedging instruments while others were designated as cash flow hedges.
Whether designated or undesignated as cash flow hedges or not, these forward contracts protect the Company against the variability of forecasted 



29



foreign currency cash flows resulting from revenues, expenses and net asset or liability positions designated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
The maximum original duration of any contract allowable under the Company’s hedging policy is thirteen months for foreign currency hedging contracts.
Cash Flow Hedges



The Company enters into cash flow hedges to protect non-functional currency inventory purchases and certain other operational expenses, in addition to its ongoing program of cash flow hedges to protect its non-functional currency revenues against variability in cash flows due to foreign currency fluctuations.
The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges have maturities between three and thirteen months.
All hedging relationships are formally documented, and the hedges are designed to offset changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions at the inception of the hedge.
The Company recognizes derivative instruments from hedging activities as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measures them at fair value on a monthly basis.
The Company records changes in the intrinsic value of its cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the forecasted transaction occurs.
When the forecasted transaction occurs, the Company reclassifies the related gain or loss on the cash flow hedge to revenue or costs, depending on the risk hedged.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company had a loss of $1.7 million, which was related to cash flow hedges, recorded in other comprehensive income.
The Company evaluates hedge effectiveness at the inception of the hedge prospectively as well as retrospectively and records any ineffective portion of the hedge in interest and other income, net in its Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Designated Hedges



Total notional amounts of net outstanding contracts were as summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Non-designated hedges



Total notional amounts of net outstanding contracts were as summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In December 2017, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements with two counterparties to swap variable interest payments for fixed interest payments on $300 million of certain debt.
These agreements will expire in July 2021.
The objective of the swap was to effectively fix the interest rate at current levels without having to refinance the outstanding term loan, thereby avoiding the incurrence of transaction costs.
The interest rate on the variable debt was fixed in December 2017 and became effective in April 2018.
On January 3, 2018, the Company evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and designated these swaps as hedging instruments.
Upon designation as cash flow hedge instruments, future changes in fair value of these swaps are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company has recognized a gain of $5.9 million, which was recorded in other comprehensive income.
30



The effect of derivative instruments on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was not material.
The gross fair values of derivative instruments on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 12.
NOTE 13.
INCOME TAXES



The Company's income tax expense was $5.6 million and $4.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, respectively.
The income tax expense was $15.8 million and $13.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and October 1, 2017, respectively.
Income tax expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to non-U.S. taxes associated with the Company's non-U.S. operations.
On December 22, 2017, Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
In accordance with this guidance, in the period of enactment of the Act, the Company estimated the deemed repatriation would result in the utilization of $46 million of net operating loss carryforwards.
As a result of further analysis of our cumulative foreign earnings balances affecting the deemed repatriation, as of September 30, 2018, the Company now estimates the deemed repatriation will result in the utilization of $34 million of net operating loss carryforwards.
The realization of net deferred tax assets is dependent on the Company's ability to generate sufficient future taxable income during periods prior to the expiration of tax attributes to fully utilize these assets.
The Company weighed both positive and negative evidence and determined that there is a continued need for a full valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets in the United States as of September 30, 2018.
The Company intends to continue maintaining a full valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets until there is sufficient evidence to support the reversal of all or some portion of these allowances.
As such, the Company may release a significant portion, or all, of its valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets within the next 12 months.
Unrecognized Tax Benefits



As of September 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the Company's effective tax rate totaled $30.8 million and $28.9 million, respectively.
The Company believes it is reasonably possible that it may recognize up to approximately $2.8 million of its existing unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months as a result of the events listed above.
Classification of Interest and Penalties



The Company classifies interest and penalties as components of the income tax provision in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the amounts of accrued interest and penalties totaled $12.3 million and $11.0 million, respectively.
32



NOTE 14.
SEGMENT, GEOGRAPHICAL AND CUSTOMER INFORMATION



Segment Information



The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets a broad range of solutions for embedded systems, from automotive, industrial, consumer electronics, and medical products.
Operating segments are identified as components of an enterprise for which separate discrete financial information is available for evaluation by the chief operating decision-maker ("CODM"), or decision-making group, in making decisions on how to allocate resources and assess performance.
The CODM is considered to be the Chief Executive Officer.
The Company's segments are its Microcontroller and Connectivity Division (or MCD) and its Memory Products Division (or MPD).
In addition, the Company does not allocate assets to its segments.
The Company excludes these items consistent with the manner it internally evaluates its results of operations.
Geographical Information



Property, plant and equipment, net, by geographic locations were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company tracks its assets by physical location.
Although management reviews asset information on a corporate level and allocates depreciation expense by segment, the Company’s CODM does not review asset information on a segment basis.
Customer Information



33



Outstanding accounts receivable from two of the Company's distributors accounted for 21.7% and 16.4% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of September 30, 2018.
Outstanding accounts receivable from one of the Company's distributors accounted for 28.0% of its consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
Revenue from sales to two of the Company's distributors accounted for 17.7% and 15.1% of its consolidated revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Revenue from sales to two of the Company's distributors accounted for 18.6% and 13.8% of its consolidated revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three months or nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Revenue from sales to one of the Company’s distributors accounted for 16.0% of its consolidated revenues for the three months ended October 1, 2017.
Revenue from sales to one of the Company’s distributors accounted for 16.4% of its consolidated revenues for the nine months ended October 1, 2017.
No other distributors or customers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three months or nine months ended October 1, 2017.
NOTE 15.
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



The changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, by components are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 16.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS



In the ordinary course of business, the Company purchases from, or sells to (a) entities for which one of the Company's directors or executive officers serves as a director or (b) entities that are otherwise affiliated with one of the Company's directors or executive officers (collectively, "related parties").
For the indicated periods, the following table presents information on the Company's transactions with such entities occurring at a time when the other entity was a related party of the Company



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2018, and October 1, 2017, balances receivable from related parties totaled $65.0 thousand and $4.5 million, respectively, and balances payable to related parties totaled $2.0 million and $9.1 million, respectively.
NOTE 17.
EQUITY 



Stock Buyback Program



On October 20, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") authorized a $450 million stock buyback program.
The program allows the Company to purchase its common stock or enter into equity derivative transactions related to its common stock.
The program does not obligate us to repurchase any particular amount of common stock and may be modified or suspended at any time at the discretion of the Board.
During the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 598 thousand shares for an aggregate consideration of $10.0 million.
As of September 30, 2018 the total remaining dollar amount of shares that may be repurchased under the program was approximately $190.8 million.
Dividend



On August 3, 2018, the Company's Board of Directors approved a cash dividend of $0.11 per share payable to holders of record of its common stock at the close of the business day on September 27, 2018.
This cash dividend was paid on October 18, 2018 and totaled approximately $39.8 million which was accrued for and shown as "Dividends payable" on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2018.
NOTE 18.
SUBSEQUENT EVENT



In October 2018, the Company entered into fixed-for-floating interest rate forward swap agreements starting in July 2021 with two counterparties to swap variable interest payments on expected future debt for fixed interest payments; these agreements will expire in December 2024.
The objective of the swaps was to effectively fix the future interest rate at the level currently available to avoid the uncertainty in financing cost for a portion of debt due to future interest rate fluctuations.
The aggregate notional amount of these interest rate swaps was $300 million.
The Company has evaluated the hedge effectiveness of the interest rate swaps and has designated these swaps as cash flow hedges of the debt with future changes in fair value of these swaps recognized in the accumulated other comprehensive income.
On October 23, 2018, the Company entered into a joint venture arrangement (JV) with SK hynix system ic Inc.
Upon close of the transaction, the Company will contribute $2.4 million in cash and will transfer its NAND Flash business to the JV.
The transaction is expected to be completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, subject to applicable regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
The NAND business is presently reported as part of the MPD segment.
The Company recorded $43.3 million and $137.9 million in revenue from the NAND business during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively; and $41.6 million and $119.7 million during the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, respectively.
35



ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information required by this item is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A.
Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.
The U.S. federal government or other governmental bodies may propose changes to international trade agreements, tariffs, taxes and other government rules and regulations.
Similarly, general trade tensions between the U.S. and China have been escalating in 2018, with rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in July, August, and September 2018 (some of which prompted retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods) and with an additional U.S. tariff rate increase scheduled to take effect in January 2019.
Further rounds of tariffs have also been threatened by U.S. and Chinese leaders.
Specifically, the August round imposed a 25% tariff on integrated circuits and the September round imposed a 10% tariff on modules, which will rise to 25% in January 2019.
For the third quarter of 2018 (when the tariffs were imposed late in the quarter) an immaterial amount of our revenue arose from products subject to such tariffs.
Assuming these tariffs remain in effect, we currently project that products subject to the tariffs will generate 



45



approximately 2% of our revenue for the fourth quarter of 2018.
•The August round of U.S. tariffs also imposed a 25% duty on imports of China-origin integrated circuit wafers, which are among the components we assemble into our products.
Although we import some such wafers for testing in the U.S., we then export them overseas for final assembly and/or distribution to customers.
Accordingly, we have been able to avoid the wafer tariff to date by use of the "temporary import bond" (or TIB) process established by U.S. Customs, which requires that we separately track each wafer to ensure that, within one year of import, it is either re-exported or destroyed.
If we fail to so track any such wafer, we would owe a double duty on the incoming shipment of which that wafer was a part.
In the semiconductor industry, supply chain changes are complicated, time-consuming, and costly, and may disrupt longstanding business relationships that are otherwise advantageous.
•We believe the U.S. tariffs may cause customers to delay orders as they evaluate where to take delivery of our products in connection with their efforts to mitigate their own tariff exposure.
We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems or intergovernmental disputes.
If market demand for our products exceeds our internal manufacturing capacity and available capacity from our foundry partners, we may seek additional foundry manufacturing arrangements.
Shipments could be delayed significantly while these sources are engaged and qualified for volume production.
We also rely on channel partners, including distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives.
We continue to expand and change our relationships with our channel partners.
We rely on many channel partners to assist us in creating customer demand, providing technical support and other value-added services to our customers, filling customer orders, and stocking our products.
Our contracts with our distributors may be terminated by either party upon notice.
In addition, our distributors are located all over the world and vary in size and financial strength.
We also rely on independent carriers and freight haulers to move our products between manufacturing plants and our customers’ facilities.
Finally, our customers source a variety of materials from various suppliers in addition to Cypress.
Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors, landlords, or other third parties.
