Item 2.
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
our growth and operating strategies; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
raw material shortages and lead times; (viii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; (xii.)
the resolution of litigation contingencies; and (xiv.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
Risk Factors” and “Part II, Item 7.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
OVERVIEW



We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, 



19

and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Outdoor installation sales can be impacted by outdoor weather conditions and the construction season.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions.
Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and service.
Orders are included in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be included in backlog until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income.
Backlog is not a measure defined by GAAP, and our methodology for determining backlog may vary from the methodology used by other companies in determining their backlog amounts.
GENERAL



Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
We organize into business units to focus on customer loyalty over time to earn new and replacement business because our products have a finite lifetime.
See "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further information.
Our strategies include the creation of a comprehensive line of innovative solutions and systems and our ability to create and leverage platform designs and technologies.
These strategies align us to effectively deliver value to our varied customers and their market needs, while serving our stakeholders over the long-term.
We focus on creating local capabilities for sales, service, and manufacturing in geographies with expected digital market opportunities.
We believe consistently generating profitable growth will provide value to our stakeholders (customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, and communities).
As a result, additional competitors have entered the market, and each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
However, the decline of digital solution pricing over the years and increased user adoption and applications have increased the size of the global market.
We can be impacted by short-term events like the U.S.
Administrative trade actions in 2018 or a number of other factors that are disclosed in "Item 1A.
Risk Factors" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments.
Pricing and economic conditions are the principal factors that impact our success in this business unit.
We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
Increased demand is possible from national retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum retailers, and other nationwide organizations.
•Additional standard display offerings using micro-light emitting diode ("LED") designs.
•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and expanded use of this technology.
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") advertising companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards reaching end of life.
•Replacement cycles within each of these areas.
Live Events Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the Live Events business unit will result from a number of factors, including:



•Facilities spending more on larger display systems to enhance the game-day and event experience for attendees.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Our product and service offerings, including additional micro-LED offerings which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.
•Dynamic messaging system needs throughout a sports facility.
•Increasing use of LED technologies replacing signage previously using LCD technology in and surrounding live events facilities.
•Replacement cycles within each of these areas.
High School Park and Recreation Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the High School Park and Recreation business unit will result from a number of factors, including:



•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards and these systems' ability to provide or enhance academic curriculum offerings for students.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
•Lower system costs driving the use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
•Expanding control system options tailored for the markets' needs.
Transportation Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the Transportation business unit will result from increasing applications and acceptance of electronic displays to manage transportation systems, including roadway, airport, parking, transit and other applications.
Effective use of the United States transportation infrastructure requires intelligent transportation systems.
This growth is highly dependent on government spending, primarily by state and federal governments, along with the continuing acceptance of private/public partnerships as an alternative funding source.
21

International Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the International business unit will result from achieving greater penetration in various geographies and building products more suited to individual markets.
We continue to broaden our product offerings into the transportation segment in Europe and the Middle East.
We also focus on sports facility, spectacular-type, OOH advertising products, and architectural lighting market opportunities and the factors listed in each of the other business units to the extent they apply outside of the United States and Canada.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks.
Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the quarter ended August 3, 2019 contains operating results for 14 weeks while the quarter ended July 28, 2018 contains operating results for 13 weeks.
COMPARISON OF THE THREE MONTHS ENDED AUGUST 3, 2019 AND JULY 28, 2018 



Net Sales



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales and orders were impacted as a result of the first quarter of fiscal 2020 including 14 weeks compared to the more common 13 weeks.
The first quarter of fiscal 2019 contained 13 weeks.
For net sales, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we achieved a $12.9 million per week average run rate as compared to $11.9 million per week during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, or an approximate 8.6% increase.
This change was driven by the order volume reasons described below and the timing of conversion related to the seasonality in our business.
For orders, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we achieved a $13.4 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.3 million per week during the first quarter of fiscal 2019, or an approximate 9.1% increase.
Commercial: The increase in net sales for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of large custom projects in the spectacular and OOH niches.
The increase in orders for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of projects in the on-premise and OOH niches.
22

Live Events: The increase in net sales for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of the demand for upgraded or new solutions for arenas and college and universities.
Orders increased for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to an increase in the number of projects for professional sports, arenas, and college and universities venues.
High School Park and Recreation:  The increase in net sales for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of converting orders and backlog into sales.
Orders decreased for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to variability in order timing and a decrease in large video projects compared to the same period last year.
Transportation: The increase in net sales for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the variability of large order production timing caused by customer project schedules.
Orders for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat.
International: Net sales for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects of professional sports stadiums.
Product Order Backlog



The product order backlog as of August 3, 2019 was $207 million as compared to $177 million as of July 28, 2018 and $202 million at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
The product order backlog as of August 3, 2019 increased in our Live Events, Transportation, and International business units from July 28, 2018 and decreased in our High School Park and Recreation business unit.
Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
The increase in our gross profit percentage for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs, partly offset by $1.5 million in additional tariff expenses, or a 0.8% impact to gross profit.
Total warranty as a percent of sales decreased to 2.1% for the three months ended August 3, 2019 as compared to 2.5% during the three months ended July 28, 2018.
The following describes the overall impact by business unit:



Commercial: The gross profit percent decrease for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to a change in product mix, which was partly offset by higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
Live Events: The gross profit percent increase for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs, partly offset by an increase in warranty expenses and a change in sales mix.
23

High School Park and Recreation: The gross profit percent for the three months ended August 3, 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat.
Transportation: The gross profit percent increase for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to product mix and higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
International: The gross profit percent increase for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily the result of lower warranty expenses, partly offset by lower sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
Contribution Margin



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses.
The first quarter of fiscal 2019 contained 13 weeks.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to personnel related expenses.
Selling expense in our Transportation business unit for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago.
Other Operating Expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



All areas of operating expenses were impacted as a result of the first quarter of fiscal 2020 including 14 weeks compared to the more common 13 weeks.
The first quarter of fiscal 2019 contained 13 weeks.
General and administrative expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the additional week of operating results added to the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved 



24

technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through our design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
Other Income and Expenses 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest income, net: We generate interest income through short-term cash investments, marketable securities, and product sales on an installment basis or in exchange for the rights to sell and retain advertising revenues from displays, which result in long-term receivables.
Interest expense is comprised primarily of interest costs on long-term obligations.
The change in interest income, net for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
Other income (expense), net: The change in other income and expense, net for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to foreign currency volatility.
Income Taxes



We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
We have recorded a tax rate of 12.6 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to an effective tax rate benefit of 13.1 percent for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The change in the effective tax rate is primarily driven by the benefit of research and development tax credits and foreign tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income for each period.
25

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net cash used in operating activities: Operating cash flows consist primarily of net income adjusted for non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes and the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Net cash used in operating activities was $18.2 million for the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash used in operating activities of $10.3 million in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
The $7.9 million increase in cash used in operating activities from the first three months of fiscal 2019 to the first three months of fiscal 2020 was the result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $10.4 million and $0.1 million in depreciation and amortization, adjusted by a $2.5 million increase in net income and $0.1 million in other non-cash items, net.
Balances are also impacted by the sports market seasonality.
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities: Net cash provided by investing activities totaled $8.3 million in the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $0.1 million in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Marketable securities, net totaled $14.5 million in the first three months of fiscal 2020 as compared to $7.2 million in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Purchases of property and equipment totaled $5.9 million in the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to $4.7 million in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
During the first three months of fiscal 2019, we had a net cash outflow of $2.3 million for the acquisition of assets of AJT Systems, Inc. 



26

Net cash used in financing activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $4.7 million for the three months ended August 3, 2019 compared to $3.5 million in the same period one year ago.
Principal payments on long-term obligations for the three months ended August 3, 2019 were $1.2 million compared to $0.5 million during the first three months of fiscal 2019, which was mostly related to contingent liability payments.
Dividends of $2.3 million, or $0.05 per share, were paid to Daktronics shareholders during the first three months of fiscal 2020, as compared to dividends of $3.1 million, or $0.07 per share, paid to Daktronics shareholders during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
During the first three months of fiscal 2020, we repurchased $1.2 million of shares as part of the $40.0 million share repurchase plan authorized by the Board of Directors.
There were no share repurchases in the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Discussion: The timing and amounts of working capital changes, dividend payments, stock repurchase program, and capital spending impact our liquidity.
Working capital was $120.2 million and $119.6 million at August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.
We often receive down payments or progress payments on these orders.
We had $4.0 million of retainage on long-term contracts included in receivables and contract assets as of August 3, 2019, which has an impact on our liquidity.
We expect to collect these amounts within one year.
When working capital is needed, we have historically financed our cash needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we violated one of our bank covenants, but we received a waiver from our banking institution for the year ended April 27, 2019.
As of August 3, 2019, we were in compliance with all applicable bank loan covenants.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement and a related revolving note with a U.S. bank.
The revolving amount of the agreement and note is $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credit, with a maturity date of November 15, 2019.
As of August 3, 2019, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $9.5 million.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a continuing and unlimited guaranty agreement with another U.S. bank which supports our credit needs outside of the United States.
The revolving amount of the loan is $20.0 million, with a maturity date of November 15, 2019.
As of August 3, 2019, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement and approximately $7.8 million in bank guarantees under this line of credit.
For more information on these agreements, see "Note 10. Financing Agreements" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
We expect to enter into a new credit facility, loan agreement, and guaranty agreement prior to our current agreements expiring in November 2019.
We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding.
At August 3, 2019, we had $21.8 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.
We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $25 million for fiscal 2020 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments.
We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations and strategies in the foreseeable future.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations



There has been no material change in our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations since the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
For additional information, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates



27

We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1.
Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "Part II, Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 27, 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adopted new lease guidance, as described in "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of fiscal 2019.
New Accounting Pronouncements



For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
