Item 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



3

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



4

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



5

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7

NOTES TO THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data)



(unaudited)



Note 1.
Basis of Presentation



Daktronics, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”, “Daktronics”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) are the world's industry leader in designing and manufacturing electronic scoreboards, programmable display systems and large screen video displays for sporting, commercial and transportation applications.
Daktronics, Inc. operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year, with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to April 30 of each year.
When April 30 falls on a Wednesday, the fiscal year ends on the preceding Saturday.
Within each fiscal year, each quarter is comprised of 13-week periods following the beginning of each fiscal year.
In each 53-week year, an additional week is added to the first quarter, and each of the last three quarters is comprised of a 13-week period.
The fiscal year ended April 27, 2019 consisted of 52 weeks.
Accounting Standards Adopted



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors).
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases) and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract.
8

We adopted ASU 2016-02 and its related guidance during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 for all agreements existing as of April 28, 2019.
We elected the "comparatives under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 840 option" as a transitional method, which allows us to initially apply the new lease requirements at the effective date.
Comparative periods were not adjusted and will continue to be reported in accordance with prior lease guidance under ASC 840.
We elected the package of practical expedients, which permits us not to reassess our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
In addition, we have elected the short-term lease recognition whereby we will not recognize operating leases related assets or liabilities for leases with a lease term of less than one year.
We have also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components in the lease payments for all asset classes.
This adoption did not have an impact on our condensed consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows, and there was no adjustment to retained earnings.
As of April 28, 2019, we recognized a right of use asset for operating leases of $11,101 and a current and non-current lease liability for operating leases of $2,745 and $8,356, respectively.
See "Note 12.
Leases" for more information.
Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
A goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
ASU 2017-04 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and will require adoption on a prospective basis.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets.
ASU 2016-13 is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will require adoption on a modified retrospective basis.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Note 2.
We have evaluated our relationships with our affiliates and have determined that these entities are not variable interest entities.
The aggregate amount of investments accounted for under the equity method was $3,538 and $3,657 at August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.
The equity method requires us to report our share of losses up to our equity investment amount.
Cash paid for investments in affiliates and loans to affiliates are included in the "Purchases of and loans to equity investment" line item in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
For the three months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $118 and $134, respectively.
The aggregate amount of investments without readily determinable fair values was $42 at August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.
We record equity investments without readily determinable fair values at cost, less any impairment, adjusted for observable price changes.
During the three months ended August 3, 2019, we did not record any changes in the measurement of such investments.
Note 3.
Earnings Per Share ("EPS")



We follow the provisions of ASC 260, Earnings Per Share, where basic EPS is computed by dividing income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution which may occur if securities or other obligations to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock which share in our earnings.
9

The following is a reconciliation of the net income and common share amounts used in the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for the three months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Options outstanding to purchase 2,197 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $10.03 for the three months ended August 3, 2019 and 1,798 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $10.46 for the three months ended July 28, 2018 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.
Note 4.
Revenue Recognition 



Disaggregation of revenue



In accordance with ASC 606-10-50, we disaggregate revenue from contracts with customers by the type of performance obligation and the timing of revenue recognition.
The following table presents our disaggregation of revenue by segments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" for a disaggregation of revenue by geography.
Contract balances



Contract assets represent revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed and include unbilled receivables.
Unbilled receivables, which represent an unconditional right to payment subject only to the passage of time, are reclassified to accounts receivable when they are billed under the contract terms.
Contract liabilities represent amounts billed to the clients in excess of revenue recognized to date.
We had no material impairments of contract assets for the three months ended August 3, 2019.
As of April 27, 2019, we had six contracts in progress that were identified as loss contracts, for which we recorded a provision for losses of $2,353 and had four remaining contracts with loss estimates of $531 as of August 3, 2019.
These were included in the "Accrued expenses" line item in our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
During the three months ended August 3, 2019, we recognized revenue of $31,259 related to our contract liabilities as of April 27, 2019.
Remaining performance obligations



As of August 3, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations was $263,406.
Remaining performance obligations related to product and service agreements are $206,990 and $56,416, respectively.
Any known project cancellations, revisions to project scope and cost, foreign currency exchange fluctuations and project deferrals are reflected or excluded in the remaining performance obligation balance, as appropriate.
Note 5.
Segment Reporting



We organize and manage our business by the following five segments which meet the definition of reportable segments under ASC 280-10, Segment Reporting: Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, Transportation, and International.
These segments are based on the customer type or geography and are the same as our business units.
We evaluate segment performance based on operating results through contribution margin, which is comprised of gross profit less selling expense.
Separate financial information is available and regularly evaluated by our chief operating decision-maker (CODM), who is our president and chief executive officer, in making resource allocation decisions for our segments.
The following table sets forth certain financial information for each of our five reporting segments for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expense.
12

No single geographic area comprises a material amount of our net sales or property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, other than the United States.
The following table presents information about net sales and property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, in the United States and elsewhere:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services, and no customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services.
Note 6.
Marketable Securities



We have a cash management program which provides for the investment of cash balances not used in current operations.
We classify our investments in marketable securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities.
Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As it relates to fixed income marketable securities, it is not likely we will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
Where quoted market prices are not available, we use the market price of similar types of securities traded in the market to estimate fair value.
In the three months ended August 3, 2019 and July 28, 2018, the reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to net earnings were immaterial.
All available-for-sale securities are classified as current assets, as they are readily available to support our current operating needs.
The contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities as of August 3, 2019 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 7. Business Combinations



AJT Systems, Inc. Acquisition



We acquired the net assets of AJT Systems, Inc. ("AJT"), a Florida-based company, on June 21, 2018.
AJT is a developer of real-time live to air graphics rendering and video server systems for the broadcast TV industry.
This acquisition will allow our organization to grow and strengthen our solution offerings to the market.
This acquisition was primarily funded with cash on hand and with payments made over a three-year period.
Note 8.
Goodwill



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill related to each reportable segment for the three months ended August 3, 2019 were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We perform an analysis of goodwill on an annual basis, and it is tested for impairment more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset might be impaired.
We perform our annual analysis during our third quarter of each fiscal year, based on the goodwill amount as of the first business day of our third fiscal quarter.
In conducting our impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our business units to the related carrying value of the allocated assets.
We utilize the income approach based on discounted projected cash flows to estimate the fair value of each unit.
Assets shared or not directly attributed to a reportable segment's activities are allocated to the reportable segment based on sales and other measures.
We plan to complete our annual analysis as of the first business day of our third quarter of fiscal 2020, which will begin on November 4, 2019.
14

Note 9.
Selected Financial Statement Data



Inventories consisted of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Property and equipment, net consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 10.
Receivables



We invoice customers based on a billing schedule as established in our contracts.
Foreign sales are at times secured by irrevocable letters of credit or bank guarantees.
Accounts receivable are reported net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,292 and $2,208 at August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.
Included in accounts receivable as of August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019 was $828 and $440, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.
In some contracts with customers, we agreed to installment payments exceeding 12 months.
We generally retain a security interest in the equipment or in the cash flow generated by the equipment until the contract is paid.
The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $6,160 and $3,514 as of August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.
Contract and lease receivables bearing annual interest rates of 5.0 to 9.0 percent are due in varying annual installments through 2024.
The face amount of long-term receivables was $5,501 as of August 3, 2019 and $3,271 as of April 27, 2019.
Note 11.
Share Repurchase Program



On June 17, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program under which we may purchase up to $40,000 of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock.
The repurchase program does not require the repurchase of a specific number of shares and may be terminated at any time.
During the three months ended August 3, 2019, we repurchased 187 shares of common stock at a total cost of $1,187.
As of August 3, 2019, we had $36,988 of remaining capacity under our current share repurchase program.
Note 12.
Leases



We lease facilities and various equipment to manufacture products and provide employee collaboration space and tools.
These are all classified as operating leases and have initial lease terms ranging from one to five years.
These operating leases do not contain material 



15

residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants.
Our lease in Sioux Falls, SD has a purchase option.
We do not have any financing leases.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Right-of-use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease right-of-use assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use the incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of future lease payments.
The operating lease right-of-use asset includes any prepaid lease payments and initial direct costs and excludes any lease incentives and impairments.
Some of our leases include options to extend the term, which is only included in the right-of-use assets and lease liability calculation when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, and we have elected to account for all asset classes as a single lease component.
These components comprise the majority of our variable lease cost and are excluded from the present value of our lease obligations.
In instances where they are fixed, they are included due to our election to combine lease and non-lease components.
Our total variable lease costs are immaterial.
Operating lease cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term, and short-term lease cost is recognized when paid.
The lease cost were as follows:



  Three Months Ended August 3, 2019



Operating lease cost(1) $852



(1) Includes short-term leases, which are immaterial.
The weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate related to operating leases include:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Supplemental unaudited cash flow information related to operating leases include:



  Three Months Ended August 3, 2019



Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:  



Operating cash flows from operating leases $816



Future minimum operating lease payments as of, and subsequent to, August 3, 2019 under ASC 842 are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Includes $3,879 to extend the term of our Sioux Falls, South Dakota manufacturing facility.
Note 13.
Commitments and Contingencies



Litigation: We are a party to legal proceedings and claims which arise during the ordinary course of business.
Warranties: Changes in our warranty obligation for the three months ended August 3, 2019 consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Performance guarantees: We have entered into standby letters of credit and surety bonds with financial institutions relating to the guarantee of our future performance on contracts, primarily construction-type contracts.
As of August 3, 2019, we had outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds in the amount of $17,248 and $21,758, respectively.
Performance guarantees are issued to certain customers to guarantee the operation and installation of the equipment and our ability to complete a contract.
These performance guarantees have various terms but are generally one year.
As of August 3, 2019, we were not aware of any indemnification claim from a customer.
Purchase commitments: From time to time, we commit to purchase inventory, advertising, cloud-based information systems, information technology maintenance and support services, and various other products and services over periods that extend beyond one year.
As of August 3, 2019, we were obligated under the following unconditional purchase commitments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 14.
Income Taxes



We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pre-tax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
We recorded an effective tax rate of 12.6 percent for the three months ended August 3, 2019 and an effective tax rate benefit of 13.1 percent for the three months ended July 28, 2018.
As of August 3, 2019, undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were considered to be reinvested indefinitely.
17

Note 15.
Fair Value Measurement



The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities among the fair value hierarchies presented.
Note 16.
Derivative Financial Instruments



We utilize derivative financial instruments to manage the economic impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on those transactions denominated in currencies other than our functional currency, which is the U.S. dollar.
We enter into currency forward contracts to manage these economic risks.
We account for all derivatives in the condensed consolidated balance sheets within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges.
18

The foreign currency exchange contracts in aggregated notional amounts in place to exchange U.S. dollars at August 3, 2019 and April 27, 2019 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of August 3, 2019, there was an asset and liability of $334 and $10, respectively, and as of April 27, 2019, there was an asset and liability of $91 and $4, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.
As of August 3, 2019, all contracts mature within 20 months.
