Item 2.
our competition; (ii.)
our financing plans; (iii.)
our growth strategy and operating strategy; (v.) the declaration and payment of dividends; (vi.)
the timing and magnitude of future contracts; (vii.)
raw material shortages and lead times; (viii.)
fluctuations in margins; (ix.)
the seasonality of our business; (x.)
the introduction of new products and technology; (xi.)
the amount and frequency of warranty claims; (xii.)
resolution of litigation contingencies; and (xiv.)
the timing and magnitude of any acquisitions or dispositions.
This discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
OVERVIEW



We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of display systems to customers throughout the world.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on markets, geographical regions and products.
Our five business segments consist of four domestic business units and the International business unit.
The four domestic business units consist of Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation, all of which include the geographic territories of the United States and Canada.
Disclosures related to our business segments are provided in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Uniquely configured orders can include several displays, controllers, and subcontracted structure builds, each of which can occur on varied schedules per the customer's needs.
Outdoor installation sales can be impacted by outdoor weather conditions and the construction season.
Our third fiscal quarter tends to be a slower quarter because it includes two holidays, it is affected by sports seasonality, and generally less outdoor construction work occurs due to weather conditions.
Uniquely configured orders involving competitive bidding and substantial subcontract work for product installation generally have lower gross margins.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and exclude extended service agreements and service only orders.
Orders are included in backlog when we are in receipt of an executed contract and any required deposits or security.
As a result, certain orders for which we have received binding letters of intent or contracts will not be included in backlog until all required contractual documents and deposits are received.
Our backlog is not necessarily indicative of future net sales or net income.
GENERAL



Our mission is to be the world leader at informing and entertaining audiences through dynamic audio-visual communication systems.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
These qualities are important for our long-term success because our products have finite lifetimes, and we strive to win replacement business from existing customers.
Increases in user adoption, the acceptance of a variety of digital solutions, and the decline of digital solution pricing over the years have increased the size of the global market.
With this positive demand, strong competition exists across all of our business units, which causes margin constraints.
We organize around customer segments and geographic regions as further described in "Note 5.
Segment Reporting" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
Each business segment also has unique key growth drivers and challenges.
Standard display products are used to attract or communicate with customers and potential customers of retail, commercial, and other establishments.
We utilize a reseller network to distribute our standard products.
•National accounts standard display market opportunities due to customers' desire to communicate their message, advertising and content consistently across the country.
Increased demand is possible from retailers, quick serve restaurants, petroleum businesses, and other nationwide organizations.
•Increasing interest in spectaculars, which include very large and sometimes highly customized displays as part of entertainment venues such as casinos, shopping centers, cruise ships and Times Square type locations.
•Dynamic messaging systems demand growth due to market adoption and marketplace expansion.
•The use of architectural lighting products for commercial buildings, which real estate owners use to add accents or effects to an entire side or circumference of a building to communicate messages or to decorate the building.
•The continued deployment of digital billboards as Out-of-Home ("OOH") advertising companies continue developing new sites and replacing digital billboards reaching end of life.
•Replacement cycles within each of these areas.
Live Events Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the Live Events business unit will result from a number of factors, including:



•Facilities spending more on larger display systems to enhance the game-day and event experience for attendees.
•Lower product costs, driving an expansion of the marketplace.
•Our product and service offerings, which remain the most integrated and comprehensive offerings in the industry.
•The competitive nature of sports teams, which strive to out-perform their competitors with display systems.
•The desire for high-definition video displays, which typically drives larger displays or higher resolution displays, both of which increase the average transaction size.
•Dynamic messaging systems needs throughout a sports facility.
•Replacement cycles within each of these areas.
High School Park and Recreation Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the High School Park and Recreation business unit will result from a number of factors, including:



•Increased demand for video systems in high schools as school districts realize the revenue generating potential of these displays compared to traditional scoreboards.
•Increased demand for different types of displays and dynamic messaging systems, such as message centers at schools to communicate to students, parents and the broader community.
•The use of more sophisticated displays in school athletic facilities, such as large integrated video systems.
Transportation Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the Transportation business unit will result from increasing applications and acceptance of electronic displays to manage transportation systems, including roadway, airport, parking, transit and other applications.
Effective use of the United States transportation infrastructure requires intelligent transportation systems.
This growth is highly dependent on government spending, primarily by state and federal governments, along with the continuing acceptance of private/public partnerships as an alternative funding source.
Growth is also expected in dynamic messaging systems for advertising and way-finding use in public transport and airport terminals.
International Business Unit: Over the long-term, we believe growth in the International business unit will result from achieving greater penetration in various geographies and building products more suited to individual markets.
We continue to broaden our product offerings into the transportation segment in Europe and the Middle East.
We also focus on sports facility, spectacular-type, and third-party advertising market opportunities and the factors listed in each of the other business units to the extent they apply outside of the United States and Canada.
As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
This price decline has been significant as a result of increased competition across all business units.
For fiscal year 2019, while we remain optimistic about long-term growth in the digital display industry, the recent U.S.
Administrative trade actions, including tariffs and sanctions, and related reactions and responses outside the U.S. are very dynamic.
This environment has created volatility, such as increases in pricing of and demand for aluminum, electrical, and other components we use in our production.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



COMPARISON OF THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 26, 2019 AND JANUARY 27, 2018 



Net Sales



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Commercial: The increase in net sales for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche, increased order volumes in the on-premise niche, and a decrease in shipments in the OOH niche.
The increase in orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches.
Live Events: The decrease in net sales for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to lower orders on a year to date basis.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we recognized more than $15 million in sales on three projects, with no similar sized projects in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the increased number of projects in professional sports and college and university venues.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we were awarded two projects each valued at over $4 million, with no similar sized projects in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
High School Park and Recreation:  The increase in net sales for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to increased shipments of scoring systems and message centers as a result of growth in market activity and the timing of customer demand.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.
27

Transportation: The increase in net sales for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the timing of production for large orders and an increase in demand for intelligent transportation systems.
Orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing.
International: Net sales for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to the size and timing of large contracts and fluctuations in conversion to revenue inherent in this large contract business.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Product Order Backlog



The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 was $168 million as compared to $151 million as of January 27, 2018 and $150 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 increased from January 27, 2018 in our Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units and decreased in our International business unit.
Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
Total warranty as a percent of sales decreased to 1.6% for the three months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to 2.9% during the three months ended January 27, 2018.
The following describes the overall impact by business unit:



Commercial: The gross profit percent increase for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to lower warranty and service expenses and sales mix.
Live Events: The gross profit percent decrease for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to lower sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs and an unprofitable project.
High School Park and Recreation: The gross profit percent decrease for the three months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to a litigation claim, partly offset by higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure.
Transportation: The gross profit percent increase for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs and a change in sales mix.
International: The gross profit percent increase for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily the result of lower warranty expenses and a change in sales mix, partly offset by lower sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
28

Contribution Margin



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses.
The impact of changes in selling expenses on each business unit's contribution margin are as follows:



Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to an increase in the allocation of shared resources to this market's selling efforts.
Selling expense in our Live Events business unit decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to reduced personnel related expenses.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Transportation, and International business units remained relatively flat during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and IT related systems.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
Product design and development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat as compared to the same period one year ago.
29

Other Income and Expenses 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest income, net: We generate interest income through short-term cash investments, marketable securities, and product sales on an installment basis or in exchange for the rights to sell and retain advertising revenues from displays, which result in long-term receivables.
Interest expense is comprised primarily of interest costs on long-term marketing obligations.
The change in interest income, net for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
Other (expense) income, net: The change in other income and expense, net for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to foreign currency volatility and losses recorded from an equity method affiliate.
Income Taxes



We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
We have recorded a tax rate of 55.4 percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of (67.0) percent for the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
COMPARISON OF THE NINE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 26, 2019 AND JANUARY 27, 2018



Net Sales



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



30

Commercial: Net sales for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago increased as a result of the timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased order volumes in the on-premise niche.
The OOH niche remained relatively flat year over year.
The increase in orders for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches.
Live Events: The decrease in net sales for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to decreased video project sizes with lower average sales price for arenas, professional sports, and colleges and universities.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we recognized more than $41 million in sales on seven projects, with no similar sized projects in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to a decreased number of projects in professional sports venues and an order cancellation.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we were awarded three projects each valued at over $5 million as compared to one project valued at over $5 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
High School Park and Recreation:  The increase in net sales for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to increased shipments of scoring systems and message centers as a result of growth in market activity and timing of customer demand.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in large video system projects.
Transportation: Net sales for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the variability of production for large orders and timing of customer schedules and an increase in demand for intelligent transportation systems.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.
International: Net sales increased in our International business unit for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago mainly due to the timing of recognizing revenue on large project orders and decreased orders on a year to date basis.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross profit is net sales less cost of sales.
The decrease in our gross profit percentage for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of the changes described below:



Commercial: The gross profit percent increase for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the result of lower warranty expenses, sales mix, and the $1.0 million adjustment of the contingent liability related to a prior acquisition earnout provision.
High School Park and Recreation: The gross profit percent decrease for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago was due to competitive bidding on large projects, a change in sales mix, and a litigation claim, partly offset by higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
Transportation: The gross profit percent decrease for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to the receipt in the first nine months of the prior fiscal year of a supplier reimbursement for a component issue with no similar receipt in the first nine months of the current fiscal year, partly offset by higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
International: The gross profit percent decrease for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily the result of the $1.2 million gain from the sale of our non-digital assets that was recorded in the first nine months of fiscal 2018, partly offset by higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
Contribution Margin



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contribution margin consists of gross profit less selling expenses.
The impact of changes in selling expenses on each business unit's contribution margin are as follows:



Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a change in the allocation of resources to this market's selling efforts.
Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to third-party commissions and increased personnel related expenses.
Selling expenses in our Commercial, Live Events, and Transportation business units remained relatively flat in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago.
32

General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.
Product design and development investments in the near term are focused on developing or improving our video technology over a wide range of pixel pitches for both indoor and outdoor applications.
These new or improved technologies are focused on varied pixel density for image quality and use, expanded product line offerings for our various markets and geographies, improved quality and reliability, and improved cost points.
We plan to make continued investments in our software and controller capabilities throughout our various product offerings.
Through all design efforts, we focus on standardizing display components and control systems for both single site and network displays.
Product design and development expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs assigned to product design and development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets.
Other Income and Expenses 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest income, net: We generate interest income through short-term cash investments, marketable securities, and product sales on an installment basis or in exchange for the rights to sell and retain advertising revenues from displays, which result in long-term receivables.
Interest expense is comprised primarily of interest costs on long-term marketing obligations.
The change in interest income, net in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities.
Other (expense) income, net: The change in other income and expense, net for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to foreign currency volatility and losses recorded from an equity method affiliate.
Income Taxes



We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pretax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
We have recorded a tax rate of (71.8) percent for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to an effective tax rate of 47.2 percent for the nine months ended January 27, 2018.
33

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net cash provided by operating activities: Operating cash flows consist primarily of net income adjusted for non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes and the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $32.2 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $27.0 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The $5.2 million increase in cash from operating activities from the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was the result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $7.7 million, a $1.0 million adjustment of the contingent liability, $0.7 million in depreciation and amortization, $0.5 million increase in net income, and $0.1 million in other non-cash items, net, adjusted by $3.8 million in deferred income taxes, and a $1.0 million gain on the sale of property, equipment and other assets.
Balances are also impacted by the sports market seasonality.
Net cash used in investing activities: Net cash used in investing activities totaled $19.9 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $1.2 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Marketable securities, net totaled $3.0 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as compared $8.5 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Purchases of property and equipment totaled $14.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to $10.9 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Proceeds from the sale of property, equipment and other assets totaled $0.3 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared 



34

to $2.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018; this was mostly related to the sale of our non-digital division assets in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we had a net cash outflow of $2.3 million for the acquisition of assets of AJT Systems, Inc. 



Net cash used in financing activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $8.8 million for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to $10.1 million in the same period one year ago.
Principal payments on long-term obligations for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 was $0.4 million compared to $1.0 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, which was mostly related to a contingent liability payment.
Dividends of $9.4 million, or $0.21 per share, were paid to Daktronics shareholders during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, as compared to dividends of $9.3 million, or $0.21 per share, paid to Daktronics shareholders during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Proceeds from the exercise of stock options for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 were $1.3 million compared to $0.5 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Discussion: We had $3.1 million of retainage on long-term contracts included in receivables and contract assets as of January 26, 2019, which we expect to collect within one year.
Working capital was $135.6 million and $132.8 million at January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
We have historically financed working capital needs through a combination of cash flow from operations and borrowings under bank credit agreements.
We have used and expect to continue to use cash balances to meet our short-term working capital requirements.
We often receive down payments or progress payments on these product orders.
To the extent these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and other expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into a credit agreement and a related revolving note with a U.S. bank.
The agreement and note have a maturity date of November 15, 2019.
The revolving amount of the agreement and note is $35.0 million, including up to $15.0 million for commercial and standby letters of credits.
The interest rate ranges from LIBOR plus 145 basis points to LIBOR plus 195 basis points depending on the ratio of our interest-bearing debt to EBITDA.
EBITDA is defined as net income before deductions for interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
The effective interest rate was 4.0 percent at January 26, 2019.
We are assessed a loan fee equal to 0.125 percent per annum on any unused portion of the loan.
As of January 26, 2019, there were no advances to us under the loan portion of the line of credit, and the balance of letters of credit outstanding was approximately $11.2 million.
The credit agreement is unsecured and requires us to be in compliance with the following financial ratios:



•A minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 2 to 1 at the end of any fiscal year.
The ratio is equal to (a) EBITDA minus the sum of dividends or other distributions (unless the bank approves), share repurchases, a maintenance capital expenditure reserve in the amount of $6.0 million, and income tax to (b) all principal and interest payments with respect to indebtedness, excluding principal payments on the line of credit; and 



•A ratio of funded debt, excluding any marketing obligations, to EBITDA of less than 1 to 1 at the end of any fiscal quarter.
On November 15, 2016, we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement and a continuing and unlimited guaranty agreement with another U.S. bank which supports our credit needs outside of the United States.
The loan and guaranty have a maturity date of November 15, 2019.
The revolving amount of the loan is $20.0 million.
We intend to use the borrowings under the agreement to support credit needs for general corporate purposes outside the United States.
This credit agreement is unsecured.
It contains the same covenants as the credit agreement on the line of credit and contains an inter creditor agreement whereby the debt has a cross default provision with the primary credit agreement.
Total credit allowed between the two credit agreements is limited to $55.0 million.
The interest rate is equal to LIBOR plus 1.5 percent.
As of January 26, 2019, there were no advances outstanding under the loan agreement and approximately $3.6 million in bank guarantees under this line of credit.
As of January 26, 2019, we were in compliance with all applicable bank loan covenants.
We utilize cash on hand to pay dividends to our investors.
The following table summarizes the quarterly dividends declared and/or paid since the prior fiscal year end of April 28, 2018:



35

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Although we expect to continue to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, the nature and amounts of dividends will be reviewed regularly and declared by the Board of Directors at its discretion.
We are sometimes required to obtain performance bonds for display installations, and we have a bonding line available through a surety company for an aggregate of $150.0 million in bonded work outstanding.
At January 26, 2019, we had $6.6 million of bonded work outstanding against this line.
We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $20.0 million for fiscal 2019 purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments.
We believe our working capital available from all sources will be adequate to meet the cash requirements of our operations in the foreseeable future.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations



There has been no material change in our off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual obligations since the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
For additional information, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates



We describe our significant accounting policies in "Note 1.
Nature of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
We discuss our critical accounting estimates in "Part II, Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we adopted new revenue recognition guidance, as described in "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
There have been no other significant changes in our significant accounting policies or critical accounting estimates since the end of fiscal 2018.
New Accounting Pronouncements



For a summary of recently issued accounting pronouncements and the effects of those pronouncements on our financial results, refer to "Note 1.
Basis of Presentation" of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report.
