Item 2.
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)



The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 20, 2017.
While we report financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("reported" or "GAAP"), this discussion also includes Non-GAAP measures.
These Non-GAAP measures are referred to as "adjusted" or "organic" and exclude items such as the disposition of Playtex gloves business, the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), the acquisition of Bulldog Skincare Holdings Limited ("Bulldog"), restructuring charges and amortization of intangibles.
This Non-GAAP information is provided as a supplement to, not as a substitute for, or as superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
We use this Non-GAAP information internally to make operating decisions and believe it is helpful to investors because it allows more meaningful period-to-period comparisons of ongoing operating results.
The information can also be used to perform trend analysis and to better identify operating trends that may otherwise be masked or distorted by the types of items that are excluded.
This Non-GAAP information is a component in determining management's incentive compensation.
Finally, we believe this information provides a higher degree of transparency.
The following provides additional detail on our Non-GAAP measures:



•We analyze our net sales and segment profit on an organic basis to better measure the comparability of results between periods.
Organic net sales and organic segment profit exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency, acquisitions and dispositions (including the disposition of the gloves business and acquisition of Bulldog).
•Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are defined as net earnings and diluted earnings per share excluding items such as the gain on the disposition of the gloves business, restructuring charges, the related tax effects of these items and the impact of the Tax Act.
All comparisons are with the same period in the prior year, unless otherwise noted.
Industry and Market Data.
Unless we indicate otherwise, we base the information concerning our industry contained or incorporated by reference herein on our general knowledge of and expectations concerning the industry.
We have not independently verified data from industry analyses and cannot guarantee accuracy or completeness.
In addition, we believe that data regarding the industry, market size and our market position and market share within such industry provide general guidance but are inherently imprecise.
26



Retail sales for purposes of market size, market position and market share information are based on retail sales in United States ("U.S.") dollars.
Trademarks and Trade Names.
We also may refer to brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies and organizations, and these brand names, trademarks, service marks and trade names are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements.
•Our inability to execute a successful e-commerce strategy could have a significant impact on our business.
•A failure of a key information technology system or a breach of our information security could adversely impact our ability to conduct business.
•Our business is subject to increasing global regulation, including product related regulations and environmental regulations, that may expose us to significant liabilities.
•Our access to capital markets and borrowing capacity could be limited.
•Impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets would result in a reduction in net income.
•Our business is subject to seasonal volatility.
•We do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
27



•Our financial results could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom's departure from the European Union.
•We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel.
•We may experience losses or be subject to increased funding and expenses related to our pension plans.
The list of factors above is illustrative, but not exhaustive.
Risk Factors of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Overview



Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
We have a portfolio of over 25 brands and a broad global footprint that operates in more than 50 countries.
We conduct our business in the following four segments:



•Wet Shave consists of products sold under the Schick®, Wilkinson Sword®, Edge®, Skintimate®, Shave Guard and Personna® brands, as well as non-branded products.
Our wet shave products include razor handles and refillable blades, disposable shave products and shaving gels and creams.
•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Bulldog® men's skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes and Playtex® household gloves until the sale of the gloves business in October 2017.
Refer to Note 2 for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.
•Feminine Care includes tampons, pads and liners sold under the Playtex® Gentle Glide® and Sport®, Stayfree®, Carefree® and o.b.® brands, as well as personal cleansing wipes under the Playtex® brand.
•All Other includes infant care products, such as bottles, cups and pacifiers, under the Playtex®, OrthoPro® and Binky® brand names, as well as the Diaper Genie® and Litter Genie® disposal systems.
The personal care product categories are highly competitive, both in the U.S. and on a global basis, as large manufacturers with global operations compete for consumer acceptance and, increasingly, limited retail shelf space.
Competition is based upon brand perception, product performance, customer service and price.
Our priority is to deliver our strategic objectives, focusing on maximizing sales and profit growth through innovation, product line extensions and share gains, as well as improving working capital management.
28



Significant Events



Sale of Playtex Gloves Business



On October 26, 2017, the Company finalized its sale of the Playtex® gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0.
The sale was finalized on October 26, 2017.
The sale provides the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves.
The strategic sale of the Playtex gloves business will allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines.
Total assets sold were $3.1, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.9.
Acquisition of Bulldog



On October 31, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Bulldog, a men's grooming and skincare products company based in the United Kingdom (the "U.K.") for $34.0, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition created opportunities to expand our personal care portfolio into a growing global category where we can leverage our international geographic footprint.
The acquisition was financed through available foreign cash.
Changes in Executive Management Team



On December 12, 2017, we announced the departure of Sandy Sheldon, Chief Financial Officer.
We have begun the process to identify and select a permanent CFO, and have retained a nationally recognized executive search firm to facilitate the process.
Executive Summary 



Following is a summary of key results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2017.
Net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") for the time periods presented were impacted by the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business, restructuring activities, the related tax impact from those costs and the impact of the Tax Act as described in the table below.
The impact of these items on reported net earnings and EPS are provided as a reconciliation of net earnings and EPS to adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS, which are Non-GAAP measures.
First Quarter of Fiscal 2018[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



29



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes pre-tax Cost of products sold of $0.3 for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the Restructuring.
(2)Includes the impact of the Tax Act totaling $16.2 in Income tax expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 in addition to the tax impact of the other adjustments to Net Earnings and Diluted EPS - GAAP.
Operating Results 



The following table presents changes in net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and provides a reconciliation of organic net sales to reported amounts.
Net Sales



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, net sales were $468.3, a 3.4% decrease when compared with the prior year period.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Bulldog, the sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements, organic net sales decreased 5.2% versus the prior year period, as overall volumes decreased primarily in North America Wet Shave and Feminine Care.
Wet Shave was impacted by unfavorable price mix in the quarter.
Sun and Skin Care organic net sales grew 2.6% in the quarter while organic net sales in All Other was flat.
We expect net sales for the full year to be flat to up 1% compared to the prior year, including a currency benefit of approximately 2%, that is partially offset by a 0.5% decline from the Playtex gloves divestiture, net of acquisitions.
Organic net sales for the year are expected to decrease approximately 1%.
Wet Shave organic net sales are expected to be relatively flat assuming continued category declines and softening international category trends.
Innovation launches by the Company across the Wet Shave segment are expected to grow share in this decelerating environment in addition to expected gains in e-commerce distribution and share.
In Sun and Skin Care, organic net sales are expected to grow in the mid to low single digits through product innovation, market expansion and distribution gains, including organic growth in Bulldog.
In Feminine Care, sales declines are expected to continue for the majority of fiscal 2018 as a result of distribution losses and competitive pressures.
For further discussion regarding net sales, including a summary of reported versus organic changes, see "Segment Results."
Gross Profit 



Gross profit was $200.3 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to $228.0 in the prior year period.
Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was 42.8%, representing a 420 basis point decline over the prior year 



30



gross margin of 47.0%.
Higher product costs were primarily driven by lower production volumes in both Feminine Care and Sun and Skin Care manufacturing compared to the prior year, increased costs related to Wet Shave footprint changes, higher commodity costs, and an unfavorable impact from transactional currency.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense



Selling, general and administrative expense was $97.2 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, or 20.8% of net sales, as compared to $93.8 in the prior year period, or 19.3% of net sales.
The increase in expenses relates to investments in e-commerce, executive severance, and expense related to one of our Zero Based Spending ("ZBS') initiatives that will yield savings going forward.
Amortization expense also increased from the conversion of the Playtex and Edge brand names to definite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017.
Advertising and Sales Promotion Expense



For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, advertising and promotion expense ("A&P ") was $49.0, down $1.6 as compared to the prior year period.
A&P spending as a percent of net sales was 10.5%, as compared to 10.4% in the prior year period.
Research and Development Expense



Research and development ("R&D") for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $16.1, compared to $16.3 in the prior year period.
As a percent of sales, R&D was consistent at 3.4% in both the current quarter and the prior year period.
Interest Expense Associated with Debt



Interest expense associated with debt for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $17.8, an increase from the prior year period of $17.4.
The increase in interest expense was the result of higher average debt outstanding under the U.S. credit facility driven by borrowings to finance share repurchase activity in the current year.
Other (Income) Expense, Net



Other (income) expense, net was $3.0 of expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to $1.9 of income in the prior year period, reflecting the impact of foreign currency exchange contract gains and losses and the revaluation of nonfunctional currency balance sheet exposures.
Income Tax Provision



The effective tax rate for the first quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 was 79.8% and 25.4%, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 includes favorable adjustments related to prior year provision estimates, which reduced the effective rate by approximately 4%.
Excluding the gain on sale of the Playtex gloves business, net tax expense from the Tax Act and costs related to restructuring charges, the adjusted effective tax rate was 34.1% and 26.3% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively.
31



The following table presents a reconciliation of the adjusted effective tax rate, which is a Non-GAAP measure:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes adjustments for the impact of the Tax Act, the gain on sale of the Playtex gloves business, and restructuring charges.
See reconciliation of net earnings to adjusted net earnings.
Savings Initiatives



Our ZBS initiative was established to capture savings and establish cost-conscious spending policies consistent with our strategic needs.
Net cost savings from our ZBS initiative is anticipated to be between $25 to $30 in fiscal 2018, which will principally fund investments in core and growth initiatives and increased marketing spend.
In addition, we have launched an expansion of our ZBS initiative to assess our organizational and operational cost structure in order to continue to drive incremental savings and accelerate shift to growth opportunities.
Segment Results



Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives and the amortization of intangible assets.
Financial items, such as interest income and expense, are managed on a global basis at the corporate level.
The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management's view on how it evaluates segment performance.
Our operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and, in most cases, a combined sales force and management teams.
We apply a fully allocated cost basis, in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments.
Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.
The following tables present changes in segment net sales and segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2017, and provide a reconciliation of organic segment net sales and organic segment profit to reported amounts.
For a reconciliation of segment profit to Earnings before income taxes, see Note 15 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Wet Shave



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Wet Shave net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased 4.0%, inclusive of a 2.4% increase due to currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased $19.7, or 6.4%, as a result of lower volumes.
The volume decline in North America Men's systems reflects the impact of distribution losses in the current quarter, compared to strong performance a year ago, when Men's systems organic net sales grew 28%.
Women's systems were essentially flat globally, but delivered 2% growth in North America.
International Wet Shave organic net sales declined 2% in the quarter, driven by lower volumes in Europe and unfavorable price mix in Asia.
32



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Wet Shave segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $54.7, down $17.3 or 24.0%, inclusive of the impact of currency movements.
Sun and Skin Care



Sun and Skin Care segment net sales and segment profit are affected by the seasonality of sun care products.
As a result, segment net sales and segment profit tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the fiscal year.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sun and Skin Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 2.6%, inclusive of a 4.0% increase due to the acquisition of Bulldog and a 1.6% increase due to currency movements, offset by a 5.6% decline from the disposition of the Playtex gloves business.
Excluding the impact of the Bulldog acquisition, sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements, organic net sales increased $1.5, or 2.6%, driven by growth in North America of nearly 7% from increased volumes from Banana Boat and Bulldog, offset by higher promotional spending.
International organic net sales decreased 2%, primarily driven by volume declines and increased promotional spending in Asia.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Segment loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $6.1, a decrease of $6.9 or 862.5%, inclusive of the impact of the acquisition of Bulldog, sale of the Playtex gloves business and currency movements.
Excluding the impact of the Bulldog acquisition and the disposition of the Playtex gloves business, organic segment profit decreased $4.6, or 575.0%, driven by increased promotional support to close the sun care season and higher product costs in the current year compared to a year ago, when production volumes were high as aerosol production was first insourced at our Ormond Beach plant.
33



Feminine Care



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Feminine Care net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 decreased $6.5, or 7.3%, inclusive of a 0.3% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales decreased 7.6%, due to volume declines in tampons and pads related to prior distribution losses, offset in part by growth in Carefree liners.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Feminine Care segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $5.0, a decrease of $3.3, or 39.8%, inclusive of a 2.4% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit decreased $3.5, or 42.2%, due to lower volumes and higher product costs compared to the prior year, when production volumes were higher in advance of the final consolidation of manufacturing into one plant.
All Other



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



All Other net sales for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 increased 1.2%, due to a 1.2% increase from the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic net sales remained flat compared to the prior year quarter as growth in Diaper Genie and Pet Care was offset by declines in infant feeding products.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



All Other segment profit for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was $7.2, an increase of $0.3, or 4.3%, inclusive of a 2.9% increase due to the impact of currency movements.
Excluding the impact of currency movements, organic segment profit increased 1.4%.
34



General Corporate and Other Expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes pre-tax Cost of products sold of $0.3 for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as a part of the Restructuring.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2018, general corporate expenses were $18.4, or 3.9% of net sales, as compared to $16.4, or 3.4% of net sales, in the prior year quarter.
The increase in corporate expenses compared to the prior year quarter was driven by a loss on the sale of an asset related to our ZBS initiative and executive severance related charges.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



At December 31, 2017, substantially all of our cash balances were located outside the U.S.
Given our extensive international operations, a significant portion of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies.
We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed.
We generally repatriate a portion of current year earnings from select non-US subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.
We are currently evaluating the amount and expected uses of repatriated cash.
We do not expect the incremental cost of repatriating cash to be material.
The counterparties to deposits consist of a number of major financial institutions.
We consistently monitor positions with, and credit ratings of, counterparties both internally and by using outside ratings agencies.
Our total borrowings were $1,699.8 at December 31, 2017, including $603.8 tied to variable interest rates.
Our total borrowings at September 30, 2017 were $1,544.8.
The increase in borrowings during the quarter were used to finance share repurchases.
As of December 31, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of $398.0 under our unsecured revolving credit facility in the U.S. (the "Revolving Facility") and $8.0 of outstanding letters of credit.
Taking into account outstanding borrowings and outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2017, $319.0 remains available under the Revolving Facility.
At September 30, 2017, we had outstanding borrowings of $245.0 under the Revolving Facility.
As of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2016, we had approximately $185.0 outstanding under a term loan.
We had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $21.1 and $19.4 as of December 31, 2017 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The expected minimum required contribution to our pension plans in fiscal 2018 is $9.6; however, discretionary contributions may also be made.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we contributed $2.4 to our pension plans.
As of December 31, 2017, we were in compliance with the provisions and covenants associated with our debt agreements.
35



Cash Flows



A summary of our cash flow activities is provided in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



Cash flow used by operating activities was $21.0 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, as compared to $51.9 during the same period in the prior year.
Due to the seasonality of the Company's business, primarily in Sun Care, the first fiscal quarter is typically the lowest operating cash flow quarter of the year.
The improvement in operating cash flow was driven by changes in working capital, primarily accounts receivable and inventory.
Changes in cash flows from Operating activities resulting from the Tax Act include a reduction in Net Earnings from the net transition charge of $16.2, a non-cash deferred tax adjustment and an offsetting change in operating assets and liabilities from the increase in current and long-term income taxes payable.
The Company expects that fiscal 2018 free cash flow will be above 100% of GAAP net earnings.
Investing Activities



Cash flow from investing activities was $9.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to cash used by investing activities of $47.7 during the same period in the prior year.
The change was primarily due to the $34.0 acquisition of Bulldog in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and the $19.0 sale of the Playtex gloves business in fiscal 2018.
Capital expenditures were $11.6 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 compared to $13.7 during the same period in the prior year.
Financing Activities



Net cash from financing activities was $34.5 during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 as compared to net cash used by financing activities of $206.5 during the same period in the prior year.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we had $153.0 of additional borrowings under the Revolving Facility offset in part by share repurchases of $115.2.
In the prior year period, the Company had net debt repayments of $141.0 under the Revolving Facility and share repurchases of $58.0.
Share Repurchases



During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 1.9 shares of our common stock for $115.2, all of which were purchased under the previous authorization from May 2015.
In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015.
Commitments and Contingencies



Contractual Obligations



During the first three months of fiscal 2018, our net borrowings on our revolving credit facilities were $153.0.
As of December 31, 2017, future minimum repayments of debt are as follows: $185.0 in fiscal 2019, $398.0 in fiscal 2020, $600.0 in fiscal 2021 and $500.0 in fiscal 2022.
There have been no other material changes in our contractual obligations since the presentation in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
36



Environmental Matters



Our operations, like those of other companies, are subject to various federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations intended to protect the public health and the environment.
These regulations relate primarily to worker safety, air and water quality, underground fuel storage tanks and waste handling and disposal.
It is difficult to quantify with certainty the cost of environmental matters, particularly remediation and future capital expenditures for environmental control equipment.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
37
