Item 1.
Financial Statements (Unaudited).
3



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(unaudited, in millions, except share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(unaudited, in millions)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(unaudited, in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(unaudited, in millions, except per share data)



Note 1 - Background and Basis of Presentation



Background



Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Edgewell” or the “Company”), is one of the world’s largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care, and infant care categories.
The Company conducts its business in the following four segments:



•Wet Shave consists of products sold under the Schick®, Wilkinson Sword®, Edge®, Skintimate®, Shave Guard® and Personna® brands, as well as non-branded products.
The Company’s wet shave products include razor handles and refillable blades, disposable shave products, and shaving gels and creams.
•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Jack Black® and Bulldog® men’s skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes, and, until its sale in October 2017, the Playtex® household gloves business.
•Feminine Care includes tampons, pads, and liners sold under the Playtex Gentle Glide® and Sport®, Stayfree®, Carefree®, and o.b.® brands.
•All Other includes infant care products, such as bottles, cups, and pacifiers, sold under the Playtex, OrthoPro® and Binky® brand names, as well as the Diaper Genie® and Litter Genie® disposal systems.
Basis of Presentation



The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States (“U.S.”) generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Audited Annual Consolidated Financial Statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018 (“2018 Annual Report”).
Statement of Cash Flows Presentation.
Certain amounts within Cash Flows from Operating Activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.
Net cash from operating activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 was not impacted by this change.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries, and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
The Company adopted the ASU for revenue recognition beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
As a result, the adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the timing of revenue recognition.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $5.3 inventory return asset included in Other current assets on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of October 1, 2018 with an offsetting increase to the returns reserve in Other current liabilities.
The adoption resulted in the recognition of a $1.3 liability for advanced payments from customers in Other current liabilities with a corresponding increase to Trade receivables to reclassify advanced payments from customers from contra-Trade receivables as of October 1, 2018.
Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.
8



In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims, and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018.
The Company noted that the adoption of the ASU resulted in the reclassification of approximately $9.0 and $7.2 in operating cash inflows for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into on September 15, 2017 with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16 intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018.
The impact of the adoption of the ASU resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset and a credit to retained earnings of $3.9.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an ASU clarifying the definition of a business, reducing the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated, and providing a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present.
The amendments set forth in the ASU specify that when the fair value of the gross assets acquired or disposed of is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similarly identifiable assets, the integrated set of assets and activities is not a business.
The guidance also requires that an integrated set of assets and activities must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output to be considered a business and removes the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace the missing elements.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018.
In March 2017, the FASB issued an ASU intended to improve the presentation of net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit cost.
The amendments also specify that only the service cost component is eligible for capitalization.
The Company adopted the ASU as of October 1, 2018, applied the ASU retrospectively for the presentation of the cost components, and applied the ASU prospectively for the capitalization of the service cost component.
The adoption impacted the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and resulted in a reclassification that increased Cost of products sold, Selling, general and administrative expense (“SG&A”), and decreased Other expense, net by $1.0, $0.6, and $1.6, respectively.
The adoption impacted the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and resulted in a reclassification that increased Cost of products sold, SG&A, and decreased Other expense, net by $3.0, $2.1, and $5.1, respectively.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an ASU that clarifies the scope of accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards.
The amendments provide guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
The Company adopted the ASU beginning October 1, 2018 and noted that the impact on its financial statements was not material.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which amends existing lease accounting guidance to require recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for leases previously classified as operating leases.
Additionally, this update requires qualitative disclosure along with specific quantitative disclosures.
Lessees and lessors will be required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
The Company will adopt this guidance October 1, 2019 with no restatement of prior period amounts.
9



Note 2 - Revenue Recognition



On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 which provided guidance for accounting for revenue from contracts with customers.
The Company adopted the standard beginning October 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method and applied the standard to contracts not completed at the adoption date.
No adjustment to retained earnings was required on October 1, 2018.
Results for periods ending after October 1, 2018 are recognized and presented in accordance with the new standard, while prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the prior accounting guidance.
Other impacts related to the adoption of the standard were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Refer to Note 15 in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the Company’s disaggregation of revenue by operating segments and products.
Practical Expedients



The Company elected to apply the following practical expedients when adopting ASU 2014-09:



•Accounting for shipping and handling costs that occur before the customer has obtained control of the goods as a fulfillment activity (i.e., expense) instead of as a promised service.
Performance Obligations



The Company’s revenue is from the sale of its products.
Revenue is recognized when the customer obtains control of the goods, which occurs when the ability to use and obtain benefits from the goods are passed to the customer, most commonly upon the delivery of goods to the customer.
Discounts are offered to customers for early payment and an estimate of the discounts is recorded as a reduction of Net sales in the same period as the sale.
The Company’s standard sales terms are final and returns or exchanges are not permitted with the exception of end of season returns for Sun Care products.
Reserves are established and recorded in cases where the right of return does exist for a particular sale.
To identify the performance obligations, the Company considers all the goods promised, whether explicitly stated or implied based on customary business practices.
The Company does not exclude variable consideration in determining the remaining value of performance obligations.
Significant Judgments



Under certain circumstances, the Company allows customers to return sun care products that have not been sold by the end of the Sun Care season, which is normal practice in the Sun Care industry.
The Company records sales at the time that control of goods pass to the customer.
The terms of these sales vary but, in all instances, the following conditions are met: (1) the sales arrangement is evidenced by purchase orders submitted by customers; (2) the selling price is fixed or determinable; (3) title to the product has transferred; (4) there is an obligation to pay at a specified date without any additional conditions or actions required by the Company; and (5) collectability is reasonably assured.
Customers are required to pay for the Sun Care product purchased during the season under the required terms.
However, the majority of returns occur in the U.S. from September through January following the summer Sun Care season.
The Company estimates the level of Sun Care returns as the Sun Care season progresses using a variety of inputs including historical experience, consumption trends during the Sun Care season, obsolescence factors including expiration dates, and inventory positions at key retailers.
This allows the Company to manage shipment activity to its 



10



customers, especially in the latter stages of the Sun Care season, to reduce the potential for returned product.
Non-Sun Care returns are evaluated each period based on communications with customers and other issues known as of period end.
The Company had a reserve for returns of $50.6 and $58.6 at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
The Company had an inventory return asset of $5.3 as of the adoption date.
The Company recorded an inventory return asset of $3.2 as of June 30, 2019.
The recognition of an inventory return asset resulted in a corresponding increase to the reserve for returns as of June 30, 2019.
In addition, the Company offers a variety of programs, such as consumer coupons and rebate programs, primarily to its retail customers, designed to promote sales of its products.
The Company accrues, at the time of sale, the estimated total payments and allowances associated with each transaction.
Additionally, the Company offers programs directly to consumers to promote the sale of its products.
To the extent total program payments differ from estimates, adjustments may be necessary.
Historically, these adjustments have not been material.
Contract Balances



The timing of revenue recognition is based on the customer’s receipt of goods.
Standard payment terms with customers require payment after goods have been delivered and risk of ownership has transferred to the customer.
The Company has contract liabilities as a result of advanced payments received from certain customers before goods have been delivered and all performance obligations have been completed.
Contract liabilities as of the adoption date were $1.3.
Of the amount deferred, substantially all will be recognized within a year, with the significant majority to be captured within a quarter following deferral.
Accounts receivable are stated at their net realizable value.
Note 3 - Business Combinations and Divestitures



Harry’s, Inc.



On May 9, 2019, the Company announced that it entered into a definitive agreement under which the Company will combine with Harry’s, Inc. (“Harry’s”) in a cash and stock transaction that values Harry’s at $1,370 (the “Merger”).
The Merger has been approved by the respective Board of Directors of the Company and Harry’s and is expected to close in the first quarter of the 2020 calendar year, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and receipt of regulatory clearances.
The Company intends to finance the Merger through new debt and equity.
The Merger of the Company and Harry’s brings together complementary capabilities to create a next-generation consumer products platform with an expansive runway for accelerated topline growth and enhanced value creation.
The Company incurred costs associated with the acquisition of Harry’s totaling $1.8 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, which were included in SG&A on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Jack Black, L.L.C.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C.
(“Jack Black”), a men’s luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition creates opportunities to expand the Company’s personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint.
The acquisition was financed through available operating cash.
11



The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on estimates of their acquisition date fair values.
The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including goodwill and other intangible assets, requires significant judgment.
The Company completed the final fair value determination during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company’s purchase price allocation for Jack Black included net assets of $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $11.9 (including cash of $3.7), other intangible assets of $47.7 and goodwill of $34.3, representing the value of expansion into new markets.
The intangible assets acquired consisted primarily of the Jack Black trade name, customer relationships and product formulations with a weighted average useful life of 17 years.
All assets are included in the Company’s Sun and Skin Care segment.
The Company noted the revenues and net earnings of Jack Black from the beginning of the period through the acquisition date were not material relative to the total revenues and net earnings of the Company during fiscal 2018.
Acquisition and integration costs related to Jack Black totaling $0.1 and $1.1 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, were included in SG&A on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Acquisition and integration costs related to Jack Black totaling $0.5 and $3.1 for the three and nine months ending June 30, 2018, respectively, were included in SG&A in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Additionally, acquisition and integration costs of $1.8 were included in Cost of products sold for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Sale of Playtex Gloves Business



On October 3, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Playtex gloves business to a household products company (the “Acquirer”) for $19.0 to allow the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines.
The agreement also provided the Acquirer with indefinite and exclusive worldwide rights to the Playtex trademark for gloves.
The sale was completed on October 26, 2017.
Total assets sold were approximately $3.7 resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.3 in fiscal 2018.
Note 4 - Restructuring Charges



Project Fuel



In February 2018, the Company announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of the Company’s business and cost structure, simplifying and transforming the organization, structure, and key processes that will provide the necessary catalyst for further re-investment in the Company’s growth objectives while enabling the Company to achieve its desired future state operations.
Initial costs for Project Fuel incurred by the Company were related to efforts to fully define the scope and reach of the project.
The Company has incurred costs and realized savings for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018 and for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and expects to incur additional costs and realize additional savings during the remainder of fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
The Company does not include Project Fuel restructuring costs in the results of its reportable segments.
The following table summarizes the restructuring activities and related accrual (excluding certain obsolescence charges related to the restructuring) for fiscal 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes the impact of currency translation.
13



Note 5 - Income Taxes



For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, the Company had an income tax benefit of $40.3 and $16.8, respectively, on Loss before income taxes of $481.7 and $410.4, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 was 8.4% and 4.1%, respectively.
The difference between the federal statutory rate and the effective rate is primarily due to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, a portion of which are non-deductible, resulting in a lower tax benefit on a net loss.
The nine month rate was also unfavorably impacted by a $4.7 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, as discussed below.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company had income tax expense of $9.3 and $56.4, respectively, on Earnings before income taxes of $21.4 and $140.3, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 was 42.9% and 40.2%, respectively.
The difference between the federal statutory rate and the effective rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 is primarily due to a $17.4 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act, as discussed below, and the impact of the goodwill impairment.
The Company has made an accounting policy election to treat GILTI taxes as a current period expense.
The Company generally repatriates a portion of current year earnings from select non-US subsidiaries only if the economic cost of the repatriation is not considered material.
14



Note 6 - Earnings per Share



Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the number of shares used for the basic earnings per share calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and restricted share equivalent (“RSE”) awards.
The following is the reconciliation between the number of weighted-average shares used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculation: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.5 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.2 of RSE awards that would have otherwise been dilutive, because the Company reported a net loss.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.5 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.1 of RSE awards because the effect of these awards was anti-dilutive.
Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets



The following table sets forth goodwill by segment:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



15



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense was $4.4 and $13.4 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $4.6 and $13.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Estimated amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal 2019 and for fiscal 2020, 2021, 2022, 2023, and 2024 is $4.3, $17.1, $16.5, $16.3, $16.3, and $16.2, respectively, and $166.8 thereafter.
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $667.9 ($180.8 in Wet Shave, $388.4 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care, and $68.8 in All Other) at June 30, 2019, a decrease of $163.6 from September 30, 2018, resulting from the impairment of the Wet Ones and Diaper Genie trade names.
The Company had indefinite-lived trade names and brands of $831.5 ($182.2 in Wet Shave, $475.6 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care, and $143.8 in All Other) at September 30, 2018.
The Company’s annual impairment test is performed on July 1.
The interim impairment analysis was performed due to the decline in the price of the Company’s common stock in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
The analysis was completed in a manner consistent with the annual impairment test using both the market and income approaches and weighting them based on their application to the reporting units.
The interim impairment review was performed across all reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets.
The analysis indicated that the carrying amount of the goodwill for the Wet Shave and Infant Care reporting units was greater than its fair value.
The impairment of the Wet Shave and Infant Care reporting units was calculated as the difference between the fair value, determined in the interim impairment review, and the carrying value.
The results of the impairment analysis indicated that the goodwill of the Wet Shave and Infant Care reporting units was impaired $358.0 and $29.0, respectively, as of June 30, 2019.
Additionally, the impairment analysis indicated that the indefinite-lived trade names for Wet Ones and Diaper Genie had carrying values that exceeded their fair values.
As a result, the Wet Ones and Diaper Genie trade names were impaired $87.0 and $75.0, respectively as of June 30, 2019.
Additionally, the interim impairment analysis indicated the fair values of the Skin Care and Feminine Care reporting units were between 102% and 105% of their carrying values, respectively.
Key assumptions used in valuing the reporting units include the weighted average cost of capital of 9.6% and 7.9% for Skin Care and Feminine Care, respectively.
The long-term revenue growth rates applied to the valuation models were 2.00% for Skin Care and 0.50% for Feminine Care.
The Company will continue to evaluate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 for potential impairment.
During fiscal 2018, the Company recorded impairment charges of $24.4 on the goodwill of the Infant Care reporting unit.
16



Note 8 - Supplemental Balance Sheet Information



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 9 - Accounts Receivable Facility



On September 15, 2017, the Company entered into the Accounts Receivable Facility.
Transfers under this agreement are accounted for as sales of receivables, resulting in the receivables being de-recognized from the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The purchaser assumes the credit risk at the time of sale and has the right at any time to assign, transfer, or participate any of its rights under the purchased receivables to another bank or financial institution.
The purchase and sale of receivables under the agreement is intended to be an absolute and irrevocable transfer without recourse by the purchaser to the Company for the creditworthiness of any obligor.
The Company continues to have collection and servicing responsibilities for the receivables sold and receives separate compensation for their servicing.
The compensation received is considered acceptable servicing compensation and, as such, the Company does not recognize a servicing asset or liability.
As of June 30, 2019, the discount rate used to determine the purchase price for the subject receivables is based upon LIBOR plus a margin applicable to the specified obligor.
17



Accounts receivables sold under this agreement were $308.2 and $754.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $328.5 and $820.1 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
The trade receivables sold that remained outstanding under this agreement as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were $119.2 and $77.9, respectively.
The net proceeds received were included in cash provided by operating activities and cash provided by investing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received is recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense, net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.9 and $2.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and the loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.8 and $1.8 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Note 10 - Debt



The detail of long-term debt was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On February 6, 2019, the Company made a $185.0 prepayment to retire its term loan due April 2019 (the “Term Loan”).
The Company funded the payment through additional borrowing on its U.S. revolving credit facility due June 2020 (“Revolving Credit Facility”).
The Company had outstanding variable-rate international borrowings recorded in Notes payable, of $12.6 and $8.2 as of June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had outstanding borrowings of $125.0 on the Revolving Credit Facility classified as a current liability.
The Company expects to refinance the Revolving Credit Facility prior to its maturity date.
The plans provide retirement benefits based on years of service and earnings.
The Company’s net periodic pension and postretirement cost (benefit) for these plans was as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The service cost component of the net periodic cost (benefit) associated with the Company’s retirement plans is recorded to Cost of products sold and SG&A on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
The remaining net periodic cost (benefit) is recorded to Other expense, net on the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Note 12 - Shareholders’ Equity



In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of the Company’s common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015.
The Company did not repurchase any shares under this authorization during the nine months ended June 30, 2019.
The Company has 10.0 shares of its common stock available for repurchase in the future under the Board’s authorization.
The Company has not declared any dividends since the third quarter of fiscal 2015 and does not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future.
19



Note 13 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income



The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (“AOCI”), net of tax, by component:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)



OCI is defined as other comprehensive income (loss).
The following table presents the reclassifications out of AOCI:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)



These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic cost (benefit).
See Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
20



Note 14 - Financial Instruments and Risk Management



At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (also referred to as derivatives), to reduce its exposure to foreign currency.
The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default.
The Company manages counterparty risk through the utilization of investment grade commercial banks, diversification of counterparties, and its counterparty netting arrangements.
Conversely, strengthening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can improve reported results.
The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the euro, the Japanese yen, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, and the Australian dollar.
These exposures are generally the result of intercompany purchases, intercompany loans and, to a lesser extent, external purchases, and are revalued in the foreign subsidiary’s local currency at the end of each period.
Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary’s local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other expense, net.
Cash Flow Hedges



At June 30, 2019, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
These derivative instruments had a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged and were deemed highly effective for accounting purposes in offsetting the associated risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
These transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The Company had an unrealized pre-tax loss of $0.5 and a gain of $3.9 at June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively, on these forward currency contracts, which are accounted for as cash flow hedges and included in AOCI.
Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at June 30, 2019 levels over the next 12 months, the majority of the pre-tax gain included in AOCI at June 30, 2019 is expected to be included in Other expense, net.
Contract maturities for these hedges extend into fiscal 2020.
At June 30, 2019, there were 61 open foreign currency contracts with a total notional value of $126.9.
Derivatives not Designated as Hedges 



The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures.
The change in estimated fair value of the foreign currency contracts for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019 resulted in losses of $1.1 and $1.7, respectively, compared to gains of $3.0 and $0.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, and was recorded in Other expense, net in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings.
At June 30, 2019, there were six open foreign currency derivative contracts not designated as cash flow hedges, with a total notional value of $56.1.
The following table provides the amounts of gains and losses on derivative instruments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)



Each of these derivative instruments had a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged for the periods indicated and were deemed highly effective in offsetting associated risk.
(2)



Gain (loss) was recorded in Other expense, net.
22



Fair Value Hierarchy 



Accounting guidance on fair value measurements for certain financial assets and liabilities requires that assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified in one of the following three categories:



Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs reflecting the reporting entity’s own assumptions or external inputs from inactive markets.
Under the fair value accounting guidance hierarchy, an entity is required to maximize the use of quoted market prices and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.
The following table sets forth the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, which are carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis during the period, all of which are classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At June 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, and remaining maturities.
The estimated fair value of the deferred compensation liability is determined based upon the quoted market prices of the investment options that are offered under the plan.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the Company had no Level 1 or Level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
At June 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,066.7 and $1,061.2, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,100.0.
The estimated fair value of the long-term debt was estimated using yields obtained from independent pricing sources for similar types of borrowing arrangements.
There was no variable rate debt excluding revolving credit facilities as of June 30, 2019.
The estimated fair value of variable-rate debt, which consists of bank debt and excludes revolving credit facilities, was $185.0 at September 30, 2018 compared to its carrying value of $184.9 at September 30, 2018.
The estimated fair value was equal to the face value of the debt.
The estimated fair value of long-term debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, have been determined based on Level 2 inputs.
Due to the nature of cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, carrying amounts on the balance sheets approximate fair value.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company’s revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.
The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings, and the revolving credit agreements have been determined based on Level 2 inputs.
Note 15 - Segment Data



For an overview of the Company’s segments, refer to Note 1 to Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management’s view on how it evaluates segment performance.
The Company’s operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions, and, in most cases, combined sales force and management teams.
The Company applies a fully allocated cost basis in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments.
Such allocations are estimates and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.
23



Segment net sales and profitability are presented below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)



Acquisition and integration costs related to Harry’s totaling $1.8 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2019, were included in SG&A on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(6)



Includes pre-tax SG&A of $0.9 for the nine months ended June 30, 2019, associated with a settlement with an investor.
The Guarantors are 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and substantially all of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness.
The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.
Eliminations represent adjustments to eliminate investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions between or among the Parent Company, the Guarantors, and the Non-Guarantors.
30



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS



September 30, 2018 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)



Intercompany activities include product purchases between Guarantors and Non-Guarantors, charges for services provided by the Parent Company and various subsidiaries to other affiliates within the consolidated entity, and other intercompany activities in the normal course of business.
31



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



Nine Months Ended June 30, 2019 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



32



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



Nine Months Ended June 30, 2018 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



33
