PART II - OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
There have been no material changes to the disclosure regarding the legal proceedings set forth in Part I, Item 3 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Refer to Item 1A.
The risk factors included below are revised from versions included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex and the impact of the Tax Act is subject to change as a result of changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, legislative action to address questions that arise from the Tax Act, changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations, updates or changes to estimates of current year earnings, exchange rates and other factors.
In addition, international tax reform remains a priority with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Action Plan on Base Erosion & Profit Shifting and other proposed foreign jurisdictional tax law changes.
However, the impact of any legislative 



44



tax law, policy or regulation changes by federal, state and local and foreign authorities may result in additional tax liabilities which could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations.
In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
More aggressive and assertive tax collection policies, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S., may increase the costs of resolving tax issues and enhance the likelihood that we will have increased tax liabilities going forward.
We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.
In fiscal 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure.
The project will incorporate our Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce growth and margin improvement objectives.
Project Fuel follows on several years of productivity initiatives, as well as the initiatives launched with the overall Separation program.
The achievement of our savings targets depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize savings opportunities.
45



Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)2,621 shares purchased during the quarter relate to the surrender to the Company of shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock equivalent awards.
(2)In January 2018, the Company's Board of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase up to ten million shares of the Company's common stock.
This authorization replaced a prior share repurchase authorization.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company did not repurchase any shares under this resolution.
(3)Includes $0.02 per share of brokerage fee commissions.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



46
