Item 1.
Financial Statements.
EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS AND COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME 



(unaudited, in millions, except per share data) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
3



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(unaudited, in millions, except share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(unaudited, in millions)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(unaudited, in millions, except per share data)



Note 1 - Background and Basis of Presentation



Background



Edgewell Personal Care Company, and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Edgewell" or the "Company"), is one of the world's largest manufacturers and marketers of personal care products in the wet shave, sun and skin care, feminine care and infant care categories.
The Company conducts its business in the following four segments:



•Wet Shave consists of products sold under the Schick®, Wilkinson Sword®, Edge®, Skintimate®, Shave Guard and Personna® brands, as well as non-branded products.
Our wet shave products include razor handles and refillable blades, disposable shave products and shaving gels and creams.
•Sun and Skin Care consists of Banana Boat® and Hawaiian Tropic® sun care products, Bulldog® and Jack Black® men's skin care products, Wet Ones® wipes and Playtex® household gloves until the sale of the gloves business in October 2017.
Refer to Note 2 for additional details regarding the acquisition of Jack Black, L.L.C.
("Jack Black") and Note 3 for additional details on the sale of the Playtex household gloves business.
•Feminine Care includes tampons, pads and liners sold under the Playtex Gentle Glide® and Sport®, Stayfree®, Carefree® and o.b.® brands.
•All Other includes infant care products, such as bottles, cups and pacifiers, sold under the Playtex®, OrthoPro® and Binky® brand names, as well as the Diaper Genie® and Litter Genie® disposal systems.
Basis of Presentation



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled subsidiaries and have been prepared in accordance with United States ("U.S.") generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), under the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation and, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the interim results reported.
The fiscal year-end balance sheet data was derived from audited consolidated financial statements, but do not include all of the annual disclosures required by GAAP; accordingly, these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's audited annual consolidated financial statements included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on November 20, 2017.
Acquisition of Jack Black.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a luxury men's skincare products company based in the United States.
The results of Jack Black for the post-acquisition period are included within the Company's results since the acquisition date.
For more information on the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements.
In August 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued a new Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") which requires management to evaluate whether there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued.
In July 2015, the FASB issued a new ASU which aligns the measurement of inventory under GAAP more closely with International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the new guidance, an entity that measures inventory using FIFO or average cost should measure inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
The standard requires cash flows from excess tax benefits and deficiencies, previously classified as a financing activity, to be classified as an operating activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted these provisions of the guidance prospectively in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The tax deficiencies were recorded as an operating activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Also, as part of the adoption, a $9.7 adjustment was recorded to increase retained earnings and deferred tax assets to recognize the cumulative amount of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of October 1, 2017.
This aspect of the new guidance was required to be adopted retrospectively.
As such, $15.6 of cash outflows for tax withholding payments were reclassified from an operating activity to a financing activity in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the first nine months of fiscal 2017.
Finally, under the ASU, the Company elected to record forfeitures as they occur.
This election did not have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued new guidance which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Under existing guidance, an entity performs procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities following the same procedures required when determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.
The amended guidance requires an entity to perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and recognize an impairment charge to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the fair value and does not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit.
The Company elected to adopt this standard in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 in conjunction with the Company's interim test for goodwill impairment.
Refer to Note 7 for discussion on the interim impairment test for goodwill and intangible assets.
118.
The Company adopted this standard in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.
In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU which provides a single comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability within industries, across industries and across capital markets.
During 2016, the FASB issued three ASUs clarifying the revenue recognition implementation guidance on various topics included within the original ASU.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with the option of using either a full retrospective or modified retrospective method.
During fiscal 2017, the Company established a cross-functional implementation team, including representatives from all of its businesses globally, to analyze the current processes in place for the recognition of revenue and identify potential differences that would result from application of the new guidance.
This initial assessment includes analysis of significant types of arrangements, processes and systems, and reviews of representative contracts.
Additionally, the Company has begun reviewing the enhanced disclosure requirements under the new standard.
Those sales predominantly contain a single delivery element and revenue is recognized at a single point in time when ownership, risks and rewards transfer.
While the assessment is not complete, the timing of revenue recognition is not expected to be materially impacted by the new standard.
The Company will adopt the revenue standard using the modified retrospective method in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an ASU intended to address diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments provide guidance on specific cash flow issues, including debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, the sale of accounts receivable, contingent consideration payments on business combinations, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims and distributions received from equity method investees, among others.
The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The Company noted that the adoption of the standard will reclassify certain operating cash inflows associated with the $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement entered into with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser on September 15, 2017 (the “Accounts Receivable Facility”) to investing cash inflows in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows by an amount yet to be determined.
In February 2018, the FASB issued an ASU which addresses the recently enacted Tax Act.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The Company plans to adopt this standard in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
7



In June 2018, the FASB issued an ASU which simplifies the treatment of share-based payment transactions used in acquiring goods and services from non employees.
The amendments note that measurement of share-based payments used to acquire goods or services should be valued at the grant-date fair value.
The grant date is defined as the date at which the grantor and grantee reach a mutual understanding of the terms and conditions of the award.
Finally, any awards containing a performance condition should be valued considering the probability of satisfying the necessary performance conditions consistent with employee share-based awards.
The update will be effective for the Company beginning October 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
Note 2 - Acquisition



Jack Black, L.L.C.
On March 1, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Jack Black, a men's luxury skincare products company based in the U.S., for $90.2, net of cash acquired.
The acquisition creates opportunities to expand Edgewell's personal care portfolio into a growing global category where it can leverage its international geographic footprint.
The acquisition was financed through available operating cash.
The Company has recognized the assets and liabilities of Jack Black based on preliminary estimates of their acquisition date fair values.
The determination of the fair values of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including goodwill and other intangible assets, requires significant judgment.
The Company will complete the final fair value determination during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, the opening balance sheet for Jack Black included net assets acquired of $93.9 and consisted of working capital and other net assets of $11.9 (including cash of $3.7), other intangible assets of $47.7 and goodwill of $34.3, representing the value of expansion into new markets.
The intangible assets acquired consisted primarily of the Jack Black trade name, customer relationships and product formulations with a weighted average useful life of 16.6 years.
All assets are included in the Company's Sun and Skin Care segment.
Acquisition and integration costs related to Jack Black totaling $0.5 and $3.1 in the third quarter and nine months ending June 30, 2018, respectively, were included in Selling, general and administrative expense.
Additionally, acquisition and integration costs of $1.8 were included in Cost of products sold in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Note 3 - Divestiture



The Company completed the sale of its Playtex gloves business to a household products company for $19.0 on October 26, 2017.
The sale allows the Company to better focus and utilize its resources on its other product lines.
Total assets sold were approximately $3.7, resulting in a pre-tax gain on sale of $15.3.
Note 4 - Restructuring Charges



Project Fuel



In February 2018, the Company announced Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of the Company's business and cost structure.
The project will incorporate the Company's Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
Initial costs for Project Fuel relate to efforts to fully define the scope and reach of the project.
While the Company is incurring costs for Project Fuel in fiscal 2018, the majority of costs and savings under Project Fuel are expected to take place during fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2021.
In addition to the expected cost savings and improved profitability, Project Fuel is designed to strengthen the Company's challenger culture and reinforce its consumer-centric organizational focus.
It is also designed to simplify the organization and streamline ways of working in order to increase competitiveness, speed and agility, and ensure the Company has the skills, capabilities and investments needed to compete in a rapidly changing world.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $15.9 and $19.6 related to Project Fuel in the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
2013 Restructuring



In November 2012, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") authorized an enterprise-wide restructuring plan (the "2013 Restructuring").
In January 2014, the Board authorized an expansion of scope of the previously announced 2013 Restructuring, which included rationalization and streamlining of the Edgewell operating facilities and other cost saving initiatives.
Restructuring charges have primarily related to plant closure, accelerated depreciation charges, severance and related benefit costs.
Costs under this plan totaled $170.1.
The Company does not expect costs related to the 2013 Restructuring program to be material in fiscal 2018 or in future periods.
2013 Restructuring charges were only allocated to the Company's Wet Shave, Sun and Skin Care and Feminine Care segments for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017.
The Company does not include restructuring costs in the results of its reportable segments.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



9



In addition, pre-tax costs of $0.3 and $0.7 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, respectively, associated with obsolescence charges related to the exit of certain non-core product lines as part of the 2013 Restructuring, were included in Cost of products sold.
Restructuring Reserves



The following table summarizes Project Fuel and 2013 Restructuring activities and related accruals (excluding certain obsolescence charges related to the 2013 Restructuring):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Includes the impact of currency translation.
Note 5 - Income Taxes



For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company had income tax expense of $9.3 and $56.4, respectively, on Earnings before income taxes of $21.4 and $140.3, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 was 42.9% and 40.2%, respectively.
The difference between the federal statutory rate and the effective rate for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 is primarily due to a $17.4 net transitional charge resulting from the enactment of the Tax Act, as discussed below, and the impact of the goodwill impairment.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017 was 16.2% and 22.9%, respectively.
For the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the estimated impact of the one-time transition tax on foreign earnings was $94.2, offset by the estimated benefit of remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and 



10



liabilities of $76.8.
The net impact of these transitional provisions resulted in a net charge of $17.4 for the year, which was included as a component of income tax expense.
The Securities and Exchange Committee ("SEC") has issued rules under Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 that would allow for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts.
The Company has not yet evaluated these proposed regulations nor the impact they may have on the provisional amounts recorded for the transition tax as of June 30, 2018.
Note 6 - Earnings per Share



Basic earnings per share is based on the average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the average number of shares used for the basic earnings per share calculation, adjusted for the dilutive effect of share options and restricted share equivalent ("RSE") awards.
Following is the reconciliation between the number of weighted-average shares used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculation:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.5 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.1 of RSE awards because the effect of these awards was anti-dilutive.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding excludes 0.6 of share options because the effect of including these awards was anti-dilutive.
Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets



The following table sets forth goodwill by segment:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Accumulated goodwill impairment losses totaled $24.4 at June 30, 2018 in the All Other segment.
11



Total amortizable intangible assets were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense was $4.6 and $13.2 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $4.0 and $12.1 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
Estimated amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for the remainder of fiscal 2018 and for fiscal 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 is approximately $4.5, $17.8, $17.2, $16.6, $16.4 and $16.4, respectively, and $183.5 thereafter.
See Note 2 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Jack Black acquisition.
The Company had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $832.0 ($182.2 in Wet Shave, $476.1 in Sun and Skin Care, $29.9 in Feminine Care and $143.8 in All Other) at June 30, 2018, a decrease of $1.9 from September 30, 2017 related to foreign currency translation rates.
Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life are not amortized, but reviewed annually during the fourth fiscal quarter for impairment of value or when indicators of a potential impairment are present.
The Company experienced a sustained decline in market capitalization during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, leading to the determination that a triggering event had occurred for all reporting units.
The Company performed an interim impairment analysis using financial information through June 30, 2018 and forecasts for cash flows developed using the Company's three year strategic plan.
The interim impairment analysis was performed in a manner consistent with the annual impairment test using both the market and income approaches and weighting them based on their application to the reporting units.
The interim impairment review was performed across all reporting units and indefinite lived intangible assets.
The analysis indicated that the carrying amount of the goodwill for the Infant Care reporting unit was greater than its fair value.
The impairment of the Infant Care reporting unit was calculated as the difference between its fair value, determined in the interim impairment review, and the carrying value.
As a result, the Company recorded an impairment charge on the goodwill of the Infant Care reporting unit totaling $24.4 as of June 30, 2018.
In addition to the impairment of the Infant Care reporting unit, the fair values of the Skin Care and Feminine Care reporting units were between 104% and 106% of their carrying values, respectively.
Key assumptions used in valuing the reporting units include the weighted average cost of capital of 10.2% and 9.7% for Skin Care and Feminine Care, respectively.
The long term revenue growth rates applied to the valuation models were 2.00% for Skin Care and 0.50% for Feminine Care.
The fair value of the Wet Ones indefinite lived intangible asset was 103% of its carrying value.
Key assumptions used in the valuation of the Wet Ones intangible asset were a 9.75% discount rate and a 1.25% long term revenue growth rate.
The Company will continue to evaluate the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 for potential impairment.
During fiscal 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges of $312.0 and $7.0 on its Playtex and Edge brand names, respectively.
Based on the impairment taken and continued competitive pressure on the Playtex and Edge brands, the intangible assets associated with the brand names were converted to definite-lived assets as of July 1, 2017 and assigned a useful life of 20 years.
The conversion of the Playtex and Edge brand names to definite-lived intangible assets increased amortization expense by $1.8 and $5.4 for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
12



Note 8 - Supplemental Balance Sheet Information



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



13



Note 9 - Accounts Receivable Facility



On September 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $150 uncommitted master accounts receivable purchase agreement with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the purchaser.
Transfers under this agreement are accounted for as sales of receivables, resulting in the receivables being de-recognized from the consolidated balance sheet.
As of June 30, 2018, the discount rate used to determine the purchase price for the subject receivables is based upon LIBOR plus a margin applicable to the specified obligor.
Account receivables sold under this agreement for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018 were $328.5 and $820.1, respectively.
The trade receivables sold that remained outstanding under this agreement as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017 were $136.9 and $81.7, respectively.
The dilution reserve, which represents the Company's retained interest in sold receivables, was $13.7 and $8.2 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, and was recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a receivable.
The difference between the carrying amount of the trade receivables sold and the sum of the cash received was recorded as a loss on sale of receivables in Other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
For the three and nine months ended June 30, 2018, the loss on sale of trade receivables was $0.8 and $1.8, respectively.
Note 10 - Debt



The detail of long-term debt was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company had outstanding international borrowings, recorded in Notes payable, of $20.9 and $19.4 as of June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The plans provide retirement benefits based on years of service and earnings.
The Company's net periodic pension and postretirement benefit (credit) cost for these plans was as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 12 - Shareholders' Equity



During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 2.1 shares of its common stock for $124.4, all of which were purchased under the Board authorization from May 2015.
In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to 10.0 shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015.
The Company has 10.0 shares remaining under the January 2018 Board authorization to repurchase its common shares in the future.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2018, the Company paid $0.1 in cash dividends related to the vesting of RSE awards, which had been declared and accrued during prior fiscal years.
The Company has not declared any dividends since the third quarter of fiscal 2015, and does not currently intend to declare dividends in the foreseeable future.
Note 13 - Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss



The following table presents the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss ("AOCI"), net of tax, by component:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)OCI is defined as other comprehensive income (loss).
15



The following table presents the reclassifications out of AOCI:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost.
See Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Note 14 - Financial Instruments and Risk Management



At times, the Company enters into contractual arrangements (derivatives) to reduce its exposure to foreign currency risk.
The Company has master netting agreements with all of its counterparties that allow for the settlement of contracts in an asset position with contracts in a liability position in the event of default.
The Company manages counterparty risk through the utilization of investment grade commercial banks, diversification of counterparties and its counterparty netting arrangements.
Conversely, strengthening of currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can improve reported results.
The primary currencies to which the Company is exposed include the Euro, the Japanese Yen, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Czech Koruna and the Australian Dollar.
These exposures are generally the result of intercompany purchases, intercompany loans and, to a lesser extent, external purchases, and are revalued in the foreign subsidiary's local currency at the end of each period.
Changes in the value of the non-functional currency balance sheet positions in relation to the foreign subsidiary's local currency results in an exchange gain or loss recorded in Other expense (income), net.
16



Cash Flow Hedges



At June 30, 2018, the Company maintained a cash flow hedging program related to foreign currency risk.
These derivative instruments have a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged and have been deemed highly effective for accounting purposes in offsetting the associated risk.
The Company entered into a series of forward currency contracts to hedge cash flow uncertainty associated with currency fluctuations.
These transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The Company had an unrealized pre-tax gain of $2.6 and an unrealized pre-tax loss of $1.6 at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively, on these forward currency contracts accounted for as cash flow hedges, which are included in AOCI.
Assuming foreign exchange rates versus the U.S. dollar remain at June 30, 2018 levels over the next 12 months, the majority of the pre-tax gain included in AOCI at June 30, 2018 is expected to be included in Other expense (income), net.
Contract maturities for these hedges extend into fiscal 2019.
There were 64 open foreign currency contracts at June 30, 2018 with a total notional value of $137.8.
Derivatives not Designated as Hedges 



The Company entered into foreign currency derivative contracts which are not designated as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes to hedge balance sheet exposures.
There were four open foreign currency derivative contracts which were not designated as cash flow hedges at June 30, 2018, with a total notional value of $48.0.
The following table provides estimated fair values of derivative instruments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)All derivative assets are presented in Other current assets or Other assets.
The following table provides the amounts of gains and losses on derivative instruments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Each of these derivative instruments had a high correlation to the underlying exposure being hedged for the periods indicated and had been deemed highly effective in offsetting associated risk.
(2)Gain (loss) was recorded in Other expense (income), net.
Fair Value Hierarchy 



Accounting guidance on fair value measurements for certain financial assets and liabilities requires that assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified in one of the following three categories:



Level 1: Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Observable market based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs reflecting the reporting entity's own assumptions or external inputs from inactive markets.
Under the fair value accounting guidance hierarchy, an entity is required to maximize the use of quoted market prices and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.
The following table sets forth the Company's financial assets and liabilities, which are carried at fair value and measured on a recurring basis during the period, all of which are classified as level 2 within the fair value hierarchy:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the Company had no level 1 or level 3 financial assets or liabilities, other than pension plan assets.
At June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, the fair market value of fixed rate long-term debt was $1,059.5 and $1,143.8, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1,096.5 and $1,095.7, respectively.
The estimated fair value of the long-term debt is estimated using yields obtained from independent pricing sources for similar types of borrowing arrangements.
The estimated fair value of variable-rate debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, which consists of bank debt, was $185.0 compared to its carrying value of $184.9 and $184.7 at June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The estimated fair value is equal to the face value of the debt.
The estimated fair value of long-term debt, excluding revolving credit facilities, has been determined based on level 2 inputs.
Due to the nature of cash and cash equivalents and short-term borrowings, including notes payable, carrying amounts on the balance sheets approximate fair value.
Additionally, the carrying amounts of the Company's revolving credit facilities, which are classified as long-term debt on the balance sheet, approximate fair value due to the revolving nature of the balances.
The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, short-term borrowings and the revolving credit agreements have been determined based on level 2 inputs.
At June 30, 2018, the estimated fair value of foreign currency contracts is the amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the contracts, considering first the quoted market prices of comparable agreements or, in the absence of quoted market prices, factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates and remaining maturities.
The estimated fair value of the deferred compensation liability is determined based upon the quoted market prices of the investment options that are offered under the plan.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
The Company reviews its legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follows appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
The Company does not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, if the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
Note 16 - Segment Data



Segment performance is evaluated based on segment profit, exclusive of general corporate expenses, share-based compensation costs, impairment charges, Jack Black acquisition and integration costs, costs associated with restructuring initiatives, the gain on the sale of the Playtex gloves business and the amortization of intangible assets.
The exclusion of such charges from segment results reflects management's view on how it evaluates segment performance.
The Company's operating model includes some shared business functions across the segments, including product warehousing and distribution, transaction processing functions and in most cases a combined sales force and management teams.
The Company applies a fully allocated cost basis, in which shared business functions are allocated between the segments.
Such allocations are estimates, and do not represent the costs of such services if performed on a stand-alone basis.
The Guarantors are 100% owned either directly or indirectly by the Company and jointly and severally guarantee the Company's obligations under the Notes and substantially all of the Company's other outstanding indebtedness.
The subsidiary guarantee with respect to the Notes is subject to release upon sale of all of the capital stock of the Subsidiary Guarantor; if the guarantee under the Company's credit agreements and other indebtedness for borrowed money is released or discharged (other than due to payment under such guarantee); or when the requirements for legal defeasance are satisfied or the obligations are discharged in accordance with the indenture.
Eliminations represent adjustments to eliminate investments in subsidiaries and intercompany balances and transactions between or among the Parent Company, the Guarantors and the Non-Guarantors.
27



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



Nine Months Ended June 30, 2018 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



28



EDGEWELL PERSONAL CARE COMPANY



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



Nine Months Ended June 30, 2017 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



29
