PART II - OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
Based upon present information, we believe that our liability, if any, arising from such pending legal proceedings, asserted legal claims and known potential legal claims, which are likely to be asserted, is not reasonably likely to be material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, taking into account established accruals for estimated liabilities.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Refer to Item 1A.
The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex and the impact of the Tax Act is subject to change as a result of changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, legislative action to address questions that arise from the Tax Act, changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations, updates or changes to estimates of current year earnings, exchange rates and other factors.
In addition, international tax reform remains a priority with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Action Plan on Base Erosion & Profit Shifting and other proposed foreign jurisdictional tax law changes.
Given the uncertainty of the possible changes and their potential interdependency, we are unable to determine whether the net consolidated impact of changes in global tax legislation would be positive or negative.
In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
More aggressive and assertive tax collection policies, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S., may increase the costs of resolving tax issues and enhance the likelihood that we will have increased tax liabilities going forward.
We face risks arising from our ongoing efforts to achieve cost savings.
In the normal course of business, we may initiate projects which change our footprint or our operations in order to gain efficiencies and reduce costs.
In fiscal 2018, we launched Project Fuel, an enterprise-wide transformational initiative that is designed to address all aspects of our business and cost structure.
The project will incorporate our Zero Based Spending and global productivity initiatives, and will include a new global restructuring initiative.
The anticipated savings will provide ongoing financial and operational flexibility for reinvestment to reinforce growth and margin improvement objectives.
Project Fuel follows on several years of productivity initiatives, as well as the initiatives launched with the overall Separation program.
The achievement of our savings targets depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize savings opportunities.
45



Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)89 shares purchased during the quarter relate to the surrender to the Company of shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock equivalent awards.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(3)Includes $0.02 per share of brokerage fee commissions.
(4)In January 2018, the Board approved an authorization to repurchase up to ten million shares of the Company's common stock, replacing the previous stock repurchase authorization from May 2015.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
46



Item 6.
Exhibits.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



47
