PART II - OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Many of these legal matters are in preliminary stages and involve complex issues of law and fact, and may proceed for protracted periods of time.
The amount of liability, if any, from these proceedings cannot be determined with certainty.
We review our legal proceedings and claims, regulatory reviews and inspections and other legal proceedings on an ongoing basis and follow appropriate accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions.
We do not record liabilities when the likelihood that the liability has been incurred is probable, but the amount cannot be reasonably estimated.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Refer to Item 1A.
The changes included in the Tax Act are broad and complex and the impact of the Tax Act is subject to change as a result of changes in interpretations of the Tax Act, legislative action to address questions that arise from the Tax Act, changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations, updates or changes to estimates of current year earnings, exchange rates and other factors.
In addition, international tax reform remains a priority with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Action Plan on Base Erosion & Profit Shifting and other proposed foreign jurisdictional tax law changes.
Given the uncertainty of the possible changes and their potential interdependency, we are unable to determine whether the net consolidated impact of changes in global tax legislation would be positive or negative.
In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
More aggressive and assertive tax collection policies, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S., may increase the costs of resolving tax issues and enhance the likelihood that we will have increased tax liabilities going forward.
39



Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table sets forth the purchases of the Company's securities by the Company and any affiliated purchasers within the meaning of Rule 10b-18(a)(3) (17 CFR 240.10b-18(a)(3)) during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)33,901 shares purchased during the quarter relate to the surrender to the Company of shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock equivalent awards.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(3)Includes $0.02 per share of brokerage fee commissions.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
40



Item 6.
Exhibits.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



41
