PART II OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



From time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business.
See Litigation and Other Legal Matters in Note 7 - Commitments, Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.Risk Factors



In addition to the other information set forth in this Form 10-Q, you should carefully consider the factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A.
The regulatory approvals and any other required approvals in connection with the Transaction may not be obtained on the proposed terms or on the anticipated schedule.
The completion of the Transaction will depend upon a number of conditions being satisfied, including, among others, obtaining all regulatory approvals required to complete the Transaction, including the expiration or early termination of the waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”) and any required foreign regulatory approvals, and the absence of any injunction prohibiting the Transaction and absence of any legal requirements enacted by a court or other governmental entity since the date of the Purchase Agreement that remain in effect prohibiting consummation of the Transaction.
The waiting period with respect to the notifications filed under the HSR Act expires 30 calendar days after such filings, unless otherwise extended or terminated.
The Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") or Department of Justice ("DOJ") may effectively extend the statutory waiting period by requesting additional information regarding the Transaction and its potential effects on competition.
Purchases of Equity Securities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(1)The Company's Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase up to such number of shares as shall equal the dilutive effects of any equity based award granted during such fiscal year under the 2017 Equity Incentive Plan and the number of shares exercised through stock option awards during such fiscal year.
(2)On November 8, 2017, the Company announced the establishment of a $100 million stock repurchase authorization, with no expiration date.
The authorization is in addition to the existing stock repurchase programs.
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures



Not applicable.
36

ITEM 6.EXHIBITS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



37
