ITEM 1.
2 



ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 



(Unaudited) 



(Dollars in thousands) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
3 



ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(Unaudited) 



(Dollars in thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
4 



ESCO TECHNOLOGIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(Unaudited) 



(Dollars in thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
The Company’s results for the three-month period ended December 31, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire 2019 fiscal year.
References to the first quarters of 2019 and 2018 represent the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
2.SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES UPDATE  



Our significant accounting policies are included in Note 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2018.
On October 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606).
Significant changes to our policies resulting from the adoption are provided below.
We adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition method applied to contracts that were not substantially complete at the end of fiscal year 2018.
We recorded a $5.5 million adjustment to increase retained earnings to reflect the cumulative impact of adopting this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2019, primarily related to certain long-term contracts our Filtration and Technical Packaging segments have that converted to the cost-to-cost method for revenue recognition.
The comparative information has not been restated and is reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
A reconciliation of the financial statement line items impacted for the three months ended December 31, 2018 under ASC 606 to the prior accounting standards is provided in Note 14.
Revenue Recognition 



Revenue is recognized when control of the goods or services promised under the contract is transferred to the customer either at a point in time (e.g., upon delivery) or over time (e.g., as we perform under the contract).
Contracts are reviewed to determine whether there is one or multiple performance obligations.
A performance obligation is a promise to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer and represents the unit of accounting for revenue recognition.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the expected consideration, or the transaction price, is allocated to each performance obligation identified in the contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation.
Revenue is then recognized for the transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when control of the promised goods or services underlying the performance obligation is transferred.
Payment terms with customers vary by the type and location of the customer and the products or services offered.
The Company does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of significant financing components based on the expectation that the period between when the Company transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Arrangements with customers that include payment terms extending beyond one year are not significant.
The related contracts are with commercial and military customers and have a single performance obligation as there is only one good promised or the promise to transfer the goods or services is not distinct or separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are included in the transaction price as the related activities are performed prior to customer obtaining control of the products.
These assurance-type programs typically cannot be purchased separately and do not meet the criteria to be considered a performance obligation.
6 



Approximately 52% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 19% of consolidated revenues) are accounted for over time as the products do not have alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for costs incurred plus a reasonable margin or the inventory is owned by the customer.
The contracts may contain multiple products, which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Each product is separately identifiable from the other products in the contract.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
Most of our contract modifications are for products that are not distinct from the existing contract and are accounted for as part of that existing contract.
Due to the continuous transfer of control to the U.S. Government, we recognize revenue over the time that we perform under the contract.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for the commercial and military contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or service to be provided.
We generally use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for our Filtration segment contracts the rate at which costs are incurred to fulfill a contract best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred based on an estimated profit margin.
Certain of our long-term contracts contain incentive fees that can increase the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
Total contract cost is estimated utilizing current contract specifications and expected engineering requirements.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Under the typical payment terms of our long term fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Performance-based payments represent interim payments based on quantifiable measures of performance or on the achievement of specified events or milestones.
Progress payments are interim payments of costs incurred as the work progresses.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified in Accounts receivable, net.
For short term fixed price and cost-type contracts, we are generally paid within a short period of time.
This method recognizes the cumulative effect of changes on current and prior periods with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
The related contracts are with commercial customers.
The contracts may contain multiple products which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Each product is separately identifiable from the other products in the contract.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are included in the transaction price as the related activities are performed prior to customer obtaining control of the products.
These assurance-type programs typically cannot be purchased separately and do not meet the criteria to be considered a performance obligation.
Products accounted for under this guidance include the construction and installation of complex test chambers to a buyer’s specifications that provide its customers with the ability to measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy.
The goods and services related to each installed test chamber are not distinct due to the significant amount of integration provided and each installed chamber is accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided.
We use milestones to measure progress for our Test segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Total contract cost is estimated utilizing current contract specifications and expected engineering requirements.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Under the typical payment terms of our fixed price contracts, the customer pays us either performance-based or progress payments.
Performance-based payments represent interim payments based on quantifiable measures of performance or on the achievement of specified events or milestones.
Progress payments are interim payments of costs incurred as the work progresses.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified in Accounts receivable, net.
This method recognizes the cumulative effect of changes on current and prior periods with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
The related contracts are with commercial customers.
The contracts may contain multiple products which are capable of being distinct as the customer could benefit from each product on its own or together with other readily available resources.
Each product is separately identifiable from the other products in the contract.
Therefore, each product is distinct in context of the contract and will be accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling are included in the transaction price as the related activities are performed prior to customer obtaining control of the products.
These assurance-type programs typically cannot be purchased separately and do not meet the criteria to be considered a performance obligation.
Approximately 20% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 6% of consolidated revenues) are recognized over time as services are performed.
The services accounted for under this method include an obligation to provide testing services using hardware and embedded software, software maintenance, training, lab testing, and consulting services.
The related contracts contain a bundle of goods and services that are integrated in the context of the contract.
Therefore, the goods and services are not distinct and the Company has a single performance obligation.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for these contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products and service to be provided.
We will recognize revenue as a series of distinct services based on each day of providing services (straight-line over the contract term) for our USG segment contracts.
Under the typical payment terms of our service contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed.
Because of the timing difference of revenue recognition and customer payment, which is typically received upon commencement of the contract, these contracts result in deferred revenue, which we present as contract liabilities, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
8 



Included in this category, approximately 8% of the segment’s revenues (approximately 2% of consolidated revenues) are recognized based on the terms of the software contract.
For contracts that transfer a software license to the customer, revenue will be recognized at a point in time.
For contracts in software as a service (SaaS) arrangements, revenue will be recognized over time.
The customer receives and consumes the benefits of the SaaS arrangement through access to the system which is for a stated period.
We will recognize revenue based on each day of providing access (straight-line over the contract term).
Under the typical payment terms of our software contracts, the customer pays us in advance of when services are performed.
Technical Packaging: Within the Technical Packaging segment, 100% of the revenues (approximately 10% of consolidated revenues) are recognized over time as the product does not have an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment.
Selecting the method to measure progress towards completion for the contracts requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products to be provided.
We use the cost-to-cost method to measure progress for our Technical Packaging segment contracts because it best depicts the transfer of control to the customer that occurs as we incur costs on our contracts.
Under this measure, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation, and revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred.
Total contract cost is estimated utilizing current contract specifications and expected engineering requirements.
Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of engineers and program managers along with finance professionals.
Under the typical payment terms of our contracts, the customer is billed upon shipment of product.
Amounts billed and due from our customers are classified in Accounts receivable, net.
This method recognizes the cumulative effect of changes on current and prior periods with the impact of the change from inception-to-date recorded in the current period.
Anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period in which the losses become probable and estimable.
These amounts are included in contract assets until the right to payment is no longer conditional on events other than the passage of time.
These contract assets are reclassified to receivables when the right to consideration becomes unconditional.
3.EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS)  



Basic EPS is calculated using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period plus shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of dilutive common share options and vesting of performance-accelerated restricted shares (restricted shares) by using the treasury stock method.
The number of shares used in the calculation of earnings per share for each period presented is as follows (in thousands): 



9 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 4.SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION  



The Company provides compensation benefits to certain key employees under several share-based plans providing for performance-accelerated restricted shares (restricted shares), and to non-employee directors under a non-employee directors compensation plan.
Performance-Accelerated Restricted Share Awards 



Compensation expense related to the restricted share awards was $1.1 million and $1.1 million for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
There were 316,794 non-vested shares outstanding as of December 31, 2018.
Non-Employee Directors Plan 



Compensation expense related to the non-employee director grants was $0.3 million and $0.3 million for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The total share-based compensation cost that has been recognized in the results of operations and included within selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) was $1.4 million and $1.4 million for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The total income tax benefit recognized in results of operations for share-based compensation arrangements was $0.3 million and $0.4 million for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of December 31, 2018, there was $6.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements.
That cost is expected to be recognized over a remaining weighted-average period of 1.4 years.
5.INVENTORIES  



Inventories consist of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



10 



 6.GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  



Included on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 are the following intangible assets gross carrying amounts and accumulated amortization: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill attributable to each business segment for the three months ended December 31, 2018 is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 7.BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION  



The Company is organized based on the products and services that it offers, and classifies its business operations in four reportable segments for financial reporting purposes: Filtration/Fluid Flow (Filtration), RF Shielding and Test (Test), Utility Solutions Group (USG) and Technical Packaging.
The Filtration segment’s operations consist of PTI Technologies Inc. (PTI), VACCO Industries (VACCO), Crissair, Inc. (Crissair), Westland Technologies Inc. (Westland), Mayday Manufacturing Co. and its affiliate Hi-Tech Metals, Inc. (collectively referred to as Mayday).
The companies within this segment primarily design and manufacture specialty filtration products, including hydraulic filter elements used in commercial aerospace applications, unique filter mechanisms used in micro-propulsion devices for satellites and custom designed filters for manned and unmanned aircraft; manufacture elastomeric-based signature reduction solutions for the U.S. Navy; and manufacture landing gear components for the aerospace and defense industry.
The Test segment’s operations consist primarily of ETS-Lindgren Inc. (ETS-Lindgren).
ETS-Lindgren is an industry leader in providing its customers with the ability to identify, measure and contain magnetic, electromagnetic and acoustic energy.
The USG segment’s operations consist primarily of Doble Engineering Company (Doble), Morgan Schaffer Inc. (Morgan Schaffer), and NRG Systems, Inc. (NRG).
Doble provides high-end, intelligent diagnostic test solutions for the electric power delivery industry and is a leading supplier of partial discharge testing instruments used to assess the integrity of high voltage power delivery equipment.
Morgan Schaffer provides an integrated offering of dissolved gas analysis, oil testing, and data management solutions for the electric power industry.
NRG designs and manufactures decision support tools for the renewable energy industry, primarily wind.
The Technical Packaging segment’s operations consist of Thermoform Engineered Quality LLC (TEQ) and Plastique Limited and Plastique Sp.
z o.o.
(together, Plastique).
The companies within this segment provide innovative solutions to the medical and commercial markets for thermoformed packages and specialty products using a wide variety of thin gauge plastics and pulp.
11 



Management evaluates and measures the performance of its reportable segments based on “Net Sales” and “EBIT”, which are detailed in the table below.
EBIT is defined as earnings before interest and taxes.
EBIT on a consolidated basis is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Management believes that EBIT is useful in assessing the operational profitability of the Company’s business segments because it excludes interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire Company on a consolidated basis.
EBIT is also one of the measures used by management in determining resource allocations within the Company as well as incentive compensation.
The Company believes that the presentation of EBIT provides important supplemental information to investors to facilitate comparisons with other companies, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP results.
However, the Company’s non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to other companies’ non-GAAP financial performance measures.
Furthermore, the use of non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to replace any measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP.
12 



 8.DEBT  



The Company’s debt is summarized as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company’s existing credit facility (“the Credit Facility”) matures December 21, 2020.
The Credit Facility includes a $450 million revolving line of credit as well as provisions allowing for the increase of the credit facility commitment amount by an additional $250 million, if necessary, with the consent of the lenders.
The bank syndication supporting the facility is comprised of a diverse group of nine banks led by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
At December 31, 2018, the Company had approximately $209 million available to borrow under the Credit Facility, and a $250 million increase option subject to lender approval, in addition to $36.6 million cash on hand.
At December 31, 2018, the Company had $215 million of outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility in addition to outstanding letters of credit of $8.2 million.
The Company classified $20.0 million as the current portion of long-term debt as of December 31, 2018, as the Company intends to repay this amount within the next twelve month period; however, the Company has no contractual obligation to repay such amount during the next twelve month period.
The Credit Facility requires, as determined by certain financial ratios, a facility fee ranging from 12.5 to 27.5 basis points per year on the unused portion.
The terms of the facility provide that interest on borrowings may be calculated at a spread over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or based on the prime rate, at the Company’s election.
The facility is secured by the unlimited guaranty of the Company’s material domestic subsidiaries and a 65% pledge of the material foreign subsidiaries’ share equity.
The financial covenants of the Credit Facility include a leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio.
The weighted average interest rates were 3.25% and 2.74% for the three-month periods ending December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
At December 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants.
The first quarter 2019 effective income tax rate was 25.5% compared to (170.8%) in the first quarter of 2018.
Income tax expense in the first quarter 2019 was unfavorably impacted by return to provision true-ups increasing the first quarter effective tax rate by 1.3%.
H.R.
1, Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
The total impact of the TCJA in the first quarter of 2018 was a net benefit of $25.1 million.
The impacts were as follows: First, the Company’s 2018 federal statutory rate dropped from 35.0% to 24.5% which required an adjustment to the value of its deferred tax assets and liabilities since the first quarter of 2018 was the period that included the enactment date.
This adjustment resulted in a favorable impact ($30.3 million provisional amount in the first quarter of 2018) which lowered the first quarter of 2018 effective tax rate by 236.8%.
Second, the TCJA subjected the Company’s cumulative foreign earnings to federal income tax ($2.9 million provisional amount in the first quarter of 2018) which unfavorably impacted the first quarter of 2018 effective tax rate by 22.8%.
The Company also recorded a $2.3 million provisional estimate of the income tax effects of the future repatriation of the cumulative earnings of its foreign subsidiaries which unfavorably impacted the first quarter of 2018 effective tax rate by 18.3%.
Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118) was issued by the SEC effective December 22, 2017.
SAB 118 allows registrants to record provisional amounts of the income tax effects of the TCJA where the information necessary to complete the accounting under ASC Topic 740 is not available but the amounts are based on reasonable estimates.
SAB 118 permits registrants to record adjustments to its provisional amounts during the measurement period (which cannot exceed one year).
The Company recorded a provisional charge for the Transition Tax of $3.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2018 and this charge is complete as of December 31, 2018 with minimal changes.
10.SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  



The change in shareholders’ equity for the first three months of 2019 is shown below (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 13 



 11.RETIREMENT PLANS  



A summary of net periodic benefit expense for the Company’s defined benefit plans for the three-month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 is shown in the following table.
The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forward contracts and swaps, to manage these risks.
In 2018, the Company entered into three interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $150 million to hedge some of its exposure to variability in future LIBOR-based interest payments on variable rate debt.
The Company expects hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the related underlying exposures.
All derivative instruments are reported in either accrued expenses or other receivables on the balance sheet at fair value.
For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income until recognized in earnings with the underlying hedged item.
The interest rate swaps entered into during 2018 were not designated as cash flow hedges and, therefore, the gain or loss on the derivative is reflected in earnings each period.
The following is a summary of the notional transaction amounts and fair values for the Company’s outstanding derivative financial instruments by risk category and instrument type as of December 31, 2018: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*This swap represents a forward contract and will be effective in November 2019.
·Level 2 – inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
·Level 3 – inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
Financial Assets and Liabilities 



The Company has estimated the fair value of its financial instruments as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 using available market information or other appropriate valuation methodologies.
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, inventories, payables, debt and other current assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.
14 



Fair Value of Financial Instruments 



The Company’s forward contracts and interest rate swaps are classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 825, as presented below as of December 31, 2018: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Valuation was based on third party evidence of similarly priced derivative instruments.
Nonfinancial Assets and Liabilities 



The Company’s nonfinancial assets such as property, plant and equipment, and other intangible assets are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis; however they are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence that an impairment may exist.
No impairments were recorded during the three-month period ended December 31, 2018.
The table below also includes a reconciliation of the disaggregated revenue within our reportable segments.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Remaining Performance Obligations 



Our remaining performance obligations, which is the equivalent of our backlog, represent the expected transaction price allocated to our contracts that we expect to recognize as revenue in future periods when we perform under the contracts.
These remaining obligations include amounts that have been formally appropriated under contracts with the U.S. Government, and exclude unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts such as Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contracts.
At December 31, 2018, we had $398.3 million in remaining performance obligations of which we expect to recognize revenues of approximately 83% in the next twelve months.
Contract assets and liabilities 



Assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
At December 31, 2018, contract assets and liabilities totaled $94.1 million and $53.3 million, respectively.
Upon adoption of ASC 606 on October 1, 2018, contract assets and liabilities related to our contracts with customers were $87 million and $51 million, respectively.
During the first quarter of 2019, we recognized approximately $20 million in revenues that were included in the contract liabilities balance at the adoption date.
15 



Reconciliation of ASC 606 to Prior Accounting Standards 



The amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in 2019 as a result of applying the new accounting standard as discussed in Note 2 is presented below: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)Previously “cost and estimated earnings on long-term contracts”  



 (2)Previously “advance payments on long-term contracts” and “current portion of deferred revenue”  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 15.NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-062, Leases (Topic 842), which, among other things, requires an entity to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
This standard will increase an entities’ reported assets and liabilities.
The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and mandates a modified retrospective transition period for all entities.
The Company is currently assessing the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which eliminates the exception for all intra-entity sale of assets other than inventory.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
There was no significant impact to the Company’s consolidated financial statements as a result of adopting this new standard.
16
