Item 2.
Except as otherwise indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, (a) the terms “EVERTEC,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “our Company” and “the Company” refer to EVERTEC, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, (b) the term “Holdings” refers to EVERTEC Intermediate Holdings, LLC, but not any of its subsidiaries and (c) the term “EVERTEC Group” refers to EVERTEC Group, LLC and its predecessor entities and their subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, including the operations of its predecessor entities prior to the Merger (as defined below).
EVERTEC Inc.’s subsidiaries include Holdings, EVERTEC Group, EVERTEC Dominicana, SAS, Tecnopago SpA, EFT Group SpA, EFT Global Services, SpA, EFT Group S.A., Tecnopago España SL, EFT Servicos Profesionales SpA, Paytrue S.A., Caleidon, S.A., Paytrue Solutions Informatica Ltda., EVERTEC Panamá, S.A., EVERTEC Costa Rica, S.A. (“EVERTEC CR”), EVERTEC Guatemala, S.A., Processa, SAS ("Processa"), EVERTEC USA, LLC and EVERTEC México Servicios de Procesamiento, S.A. de C.V.
Executive Summary



EVERTEC is a leading full-service transaction processing business in Latin America and the Caribbean, providing a broad range of merchant acquiring, payment services and business process management services.
According to the August 2017 Nilson Report, we are one of the largest merchant acquirers in Latin America based on total number of transactions and we believe we are the largest merchant acquirer in the Caribbean and Central America.
We serve 26 countries in the region from our base in Puerto Rico.
We manage a system of electronic payment networks that process more than two billion transactions annually, and offer a comprehensive suite of services for core bank processing, cash processing and technology outsourcing.
In addition, we own and operate the ATH network, one of the leading personal identification number (“PIN”) debit networks in Latin America.
We serve a diversified customer base of leading financial institutions, merchants, corporations and government agencies with “mission-critical” technology solutions that enable them to issue, process and accept transactions securely.
We believe our business is well-positioned to continue to expand across the fast-growing Latin American region.
Our broad suite of services spans the entire transaction processing value chain and includes a range of front-end customer-facing solutions such as the electronic capture and authorization of transactions at the point-of-sale, as well as back-end support services such as the clearing and settlement of transactions and account reconciliation for card issuers.
These include: (i) merchant acquiring services, which enable point of sales (“POS”) and e-commerce merchants to accept and process electronic methods of payment such as debit, credit, prepaid and electronic benefit transfer (“EBT”) cards; (ii) payment processing services, which enable financial institutions and other issuers to manage, support and facilitate the processing for credit, debit, prepaid, automated teller machines (“ATM”) and EBT card programs; and (iii) business process management solutions, which provide “mission-critical” technology solutions such as core bank processing, as well as IT outsourcing and cash management services to financial institutions, corporations and governments.
We provide these services through scalable, end-to-end 



23

technology platforms that we manage and operate in-house and that generates significant operating efficiencies that enable us to maximize profitability.
Our revenue is predominantly recurring in nature because of the mission-critical and embedded nature of the services we provide.
Corporate Background



EVERTEC, Inc. (formerly known as Carib Latam Holdings, Inc.) is a Puerto Rico corporation organized in April 2012.
Our main operating subsidiary, EVERTEC Group, LLC (formerly known as EVERTEC, LLC and EVERTEC, Inc., hereinafter “EVERTEC Group”), was organized in Puerto Rico in 1988.
EVERTEC Group was formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of Popular.
On September 30, 2010, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the “Merger Agreement”), AP Carib Holdings, Ltd. (“Apollo”), an affiliate of Apollo Global Management LLC, acquired a 51% indirect ownership interest in EVERTEC Group as part of a merger (the “Merger”) and EVERTEC Group became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdings.
On April 17, 2012, EVERTEC Group was converted from a Puerto Rico corporation to a Puerto Rico limited liability company (the “Conversion”) for the purpose of improving its consolidated tax efficiency by taking advantage of changes to the Puerto Rico Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “PR Code”), that permit limited liability companies to be treated as partnerships that are pass-through entities for Puerto Rico tax purposes.
Prior to these conversions, EVERTEC, Inc. was formed in order to act as the new parent company of Holdings and its subsidiaries, including EVERTEC Group.
The transactions described above in this paragraph are collectively referred to as the “Reorganization.” 



Separation from and Key Relationship with Popular



Prior to the Merger on September 30, 2010, EVERTEC Group was 100% owned by Popular, the largest financial institution in the Caribbean, and operated substantially as an independent entity within Popular.
In connection with, and upon consummation of the Merger, EVERTEC Group entered into a 15-year Master Services Agreement (the “MSA”), and several related agreements with Popular.
Under the terms of the MSA, Popular agreed to continue to use EVERTEC services on an ongoing and exclusive basis, for the duration of the agreement, on commercial terms consistent with those of our historical relationship.
Additionally, Popular granted us a right of first refusal on the development of certain new financial technology products and services for the duration of the MSA.
For example, currently the adoption of banking products, including electronic payments, in the Latin American and Caribbean region is lower relative to the mature U.S. and European markets.
We also benefit from the trend for financial institutions and government agencies to outsource technology systems and processes.
Many medium- and small-size institutions in the Latin American markets in which we operate have outdated computer systems and updating these IT legacy systems is financially and logistically challenging, which presents a business opportunity for us.
On June 30, 2016, the U.S. President signed into law PROMESA.
PROMESA establishes a fiscal oversight and the Oversight Board comprised of seven voting members appointed by the President.
The Oversight Board has broad budgetary and financial 



24

powers over Puerto Rico’s budget, laws, financial plans and regulations, including the power to approve restructuring agreements with creditors, file petitions for restructuring and reform the electronic system for the tax collection.
The Oversight Board will have ultimate authority in preparing the Puerto Rico government’s budget and any issuance of future debt by the government and its instrumentalities.
In addition, PROMESA imposes an automatic stay on all litigation against Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities, as well as any other judicial or administrative actions or proceedings to enforce or collect claims against the Puerto Rico government.
On May 1, 2017, the automatic stay expired.
Promptly after the expiration of the stay, creditors of the Puerto Rico government filed various lawsuits involving defaults on more than $70 billion of bonds issued by Puerto Rico, having failed to reach a negotiated settlement on such defaults with the Puerto Rico government during the period of the automatic stay.
On May 3, 2017, the Oversight Board filed a voluntary petition of relief on behalf of the Commonwealth pursuant to Title III of PROMESA for the restructuring of the Commonwealth’s debt.
Subsequently, the Oversight Board filed voluntary petitions of relief pursuant to Title III of PROMESA on behalf certain public corporations and instrumentalities.
Title III is an in-court debt restructuring proceeding similar to protections afforded debtors under Chapter 11 of the United States Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”); the Bankruptcy Code is not available to the Commonwealth or its instrumentalities.
As the solution to the Puerto Rican government’s debt crisis remains unclear, we continue to carefully monitor our receivables with the government as well as monitor general economic trends to understand the impact the crisis has on the economy of Puerto Rico and our card payment volumes.
In the aftermath of the 2017 hurricanes, economic activity and consumer spending in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands has been erratic.
In nine months ended September 30, 2018, we experienced elevated sales volumes as consumers and businesses spent on hurricane recovery and rebuilding activities.
In addition to the macroeconomic trends described above, Management currently estimates that we will continue to experience a revenue attrition in Latin America of approximately $3 million to $6 million for previously disclosed migrations anticipated in 2019.
The clients decisions, which were made prior to 2015, for these anticipated migrations were driven by a variety of historical factors, most importantly customer service experience.
Results of Operations



Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenues



Total revenues in the third quarter of 2018 increased by $9.3 million or 9% to $112.0 million.
Revenue growth in the quarter reflected elevated sales volumes in Puerto Rico driven by post-hurricane recovery activity, federal relief and benefit programs and insurance proceeds.
25

Cost of revenues 



Cost of revenues amounted to $49.5 million, a decrease of $13.2 million or 21% when compared with the prior year period.
Selling, general and administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2018 decreased by $0.2 million or 1% when compared with the same quarter in 2017.
Depreciation and amortization



Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $15.8 million, a decrease of $0.8 million or 5%.
The decrease is mainly related to a decrease in software amortization.
Non-operating income (expenses)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Non-operating expenses decreased by $1.5 million to $6.0 million when compared with the prior year period.
The decrease is mainly related to a $0.9 million increase in Other income, net due to an increase in foreign exchange gains coupled with a decrease in interest expense of $0.5 million.
The increase is primarily related to the mix between taxable and exempt income in Puerto Rico when compared to the prior year which was impacted by the hurricanes, coupled with the reversal in the prior year of a potential liability for uncertain tax positions of $4.5 million as a result of the expiration of the statute of limitation.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 12.5%.
26

Comparison of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenues



Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 amounted to $335.6 million, an increase of $28.1 million or 9%.
The increase in revenues was primarily driven by the same reasons explained above for the quarter coupled with added revenues from the acquisition of PayGroup completed in the third quarter of the prior year.
Cost of revenues 



Cost of revenues amounted to $146.0 million, a decrease of $3.9 million or 3% when compared with the prior year period.
The decrease is primarily related to the aforementioned exit activity in the prior year, partially offset by an increase in salaries and benefits in connection with the PayGroup acquisition as well as increased software maintenance expense.
Selling, general and administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $5.7 million or 14% to $45.7 million when compared with the same period in 2017.
The increase is mainly driven by an increase in share based compensation expense, added salaries from the PayGroup acquisition and an increase in professional fees.
Depreciation and amortization



Depreciation and amortization expense amounted to $47.4 million, a decrease of $0.8 million when compared with the same period in 2017.
The decrease is mainly related to a decrease in software amortization expense.
Non-operating income (expenses)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Non-operating expenses increased by $1.2 million to $19.9 million when compared with the prior year period.
The increase is mainly related to an increase in interest expense of $0.4 million coupled with a $1.0 million decrease in Other income, net mostly due to a decrease in foreign exchange gains.
27

Income tax expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Income tax expense amounted to $10.3 million an increase of $9.1 million when compared with the prior year period.
The effective tax rate for the period was 13.5% .
Segment Results of Operations



The Company operates in four business segments: Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean, Payment Services - Latin America (collectively "Payment Services segments"), Merchant Acquiring, and Business Solutions.
The Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean segment revenues are comprised of revenues related to providing access to the ATH debit network and other card networks to financial institutions, including related services such as authorization, processing, management and recording of ATM and POS transactions, and ATM management and monitoring.
The segment revenues also include revenues from card processing services (such as credit and debit card processing, authorization and settlement and fraud monitoring and control to debit or credit issuers), payment processing services (such as payment and billing products for merchants, businesses and financial institutions) and electronic benefit transfer (“EBT”) (which principally consist of services to the government of Puerto Rico for the delivery of benefits to participants).
For ATH debit network and processing services, revenues are primarily driven by the number of transactions processed.
Revenues are derived primarily from network fees, transaction switching and processing fees, and the leasing POS devices.
For card issuer processing, revenues are primarily dependent upon the number of cardholder accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, the number of cards embossed and other processing services.
For EBT services, revenues are primarily derived from the number of beneficiaries on file.
The Payment Services - Latin America segment revenues consist of revenues related to providing access to the ATH network and other card networks to financial institutions, including related services such as authorization, processing, management and recording of ATM and POS transactions, and ATM management and monitoring.
The segment revenues also include revenues from card processing services (such as credit and debit card processing, authorization and settlement and fraud monitoring and control to debit or credit issuers), payment processing services (such as payment and billing products for merchants, businesses and financial institutions), as well as, licensed software solutions for risk and fraud management and card payment processing.
For ATH debit network and processing services, revenues are primarily driven by the number of transactions processed.
Revenues are derived primarily from network fees, transaction switching and processing fees, and the leasing POS devices.
For card issuer processing, revenues are primarily dependent upon the number of cardholder accounts on file, transactions and authorizations processed, the number of cards embossed and other processing services.
The Merchant Acquiring segment consists of revenues from services that allow merchants to accept electronic methods of payment.
In the Merchant Acquiring segment, revenues include a discount fee and membership fees charged to merchants, debit network fees and rental fees from POS devices and other equipment, net of credit card interchange and assessment fees charged by credit cards associations (such as VISA or MasterCard) or payment networks.
The discount fee is generally a percentage of the transaction value.
EVERTEC also charges merchants for other services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.
The Business Solutions segment consists of revenues from a full suite of business process management solutions in various product areas such as core bank processing, network hosting and management, IT professional services, business process outsourcing, item processing, cash processing, and fulfillment.
Core bank processing and network services revenues are derived in part from a recurrent fee and from fees based on the number of accounts on file (i.e.
savings or checking accounts, loans, etc.)
or computer resources utilized.
Revenues from other processing services within the Business Solutions segment are generally volume-based and depend on factors such as the number of accounts processed.
In addition to the four operating segments described above, Management identified certain functional cost areas that operate independently and do not constitute businesses in themselves.
These units could neither be concluded as operating segments 



28

nor could they be combined with any other operating segments.
Management evaluates the operating results of each of its operating segments based upon revenues and Adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to operating segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting" given that it is reported to the CODM for purposes of allocating resources.
Segment asset disclosure is not used by the CODM as a measure of segment performance since the segment evaluation is driven by revenues and adjusted EBITDA performance.
As such, segment assets are not disclosed in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
The following tables set forth information about the Company’s operations by its four business segments for the periods indicated below.
Comparison of the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017



Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Payment services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean revenues increased by $3.7 million to $29.0 million when compared with the 2017 period.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by $4.0 million to $19.2 million primarily due to higher revenues as a result of the hurricane impacts in the prior year quarter.
Payment Services - Latin America



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $1.5 million to $18.9 million driven by organic expansion of existing clients as well as some new business revenue.
The increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenues attributable to client migrations.
29

Merchant Acquiring



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Merchant acquiring revenues increased $2.9 million to $24.5 million due to increased volumes.
The primary growth drivers continue to be post hurricane recovery federal relief programs that drove a significant increase in electronic benefit card volume, increased government tax payments and gas purchases reflecting increases in the price of gas year over year.
Business Solutions



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Business solutions revenue increased $2.6 million or 6% driven by new services to Popular and the government of Puerto Rico, as well as growth over the prior year which was negatively impacted by the hurricanes, partially offset by lower IT Consulting revenues.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $2.3 million to $21.7 million when compared with the prior year almost entirely driven by the increase in revenues.
Comparison of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 



Payment Services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Payment services - Puerto Rico & Caribbean revenues increased by $5.3 million to $84.2 million when compared with the 2017 year-to-date period.
Adjusted EBITDA increased $4.5 million mainly as a result of the increase in revenues.
Payment Services - Latin America



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Payment services - Latin America revenue increased $15.2 million to $58.5 million driven by added revenues in connection with PayGroup acquisition coupled with increased revenues from transaction processing.
30

Merchant Acquiring



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Merchant acquiring revenues increased $6.3 million to $73.8 million and Adjusted EBITDA increased $4.7 million to $34.4 million driven by the same reasons explained previously for the quarter.
Business Solutions



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Business solutions revenue increased $3.0 million to $146.0 million when compared with the prior year driven by an increase in revenues from Popular for new services coupled with growth over the negative impact of the hurricanes in the prior year, partially offset by lower IT consulting revenue, while Adjusted EBITDA increased $2.7 million mainly due to the increase in revenues.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operations, and our primary liquidity requirements are the funding of capital expenditures, working capital needs and acquisitions.
We also have a $65.0 million Revolving Facility, of which $65.0 million was available as of September 30, 2018.
At September 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $91.3 million, of which $40.3 million resides in our subsidiaries located outside of Puerto Rico for purposes of (i) funding the respective subsidiary’s current business operations and (ii) funding potential future investment outside of Puerto Rico.
We intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of Puerto Rico, and based on our liquidity forecast, we will not need to repatriate this cash to fund the Puerto Rico operations or to meet debt-service obligations.
However, if in the future we determine that we no longer need to maintain such cash balances within our foreign subsidiaries, we may elect to distribute such cash to the Company in Puerto Rico.
Based on our current level of operations, we believe our cash flows from operations and the available senior secured Revolving Credit Facility will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for the next twelve months.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



31

Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $128.4 million compared with cash provided by operating activities of $108.4 million for the corresponding 2017 period.
The $20.0 million increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily driven by an increase in net income.
Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $25.0 million compared with $67.0 million for the corresponding period in 2017.
The $42.1 million decrease is attributable to the completion of the PayGroup acquisition in the third quarter of 2017.
Net cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $59.8 million compared with $42.6 million for the corresponding 2017 period.
Cash used in financing activities was primarily related to cash used for repayments of the revolving credit facility and principal repayments on long-term debt, including the repayment at maturity of the 2018 Term A loan.
Capital Resources



Our principal capital expenditures are for hardware and computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment.
We invested approximately $25.0 million and $24.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In addition, in the third quarter of 2017, we completed the purchase of PayGroup for $42.8 million.
We expect capital expenditures to be in a range of $37 million to $42 million in 2018.
On April 17, 2018, the Company paid the outstanding balance of the 2018 Term A Loan which amounted to $26.1 million, as scheduled.
In addition, on the same date, $35 million of the Revolving Facility expired.
The dividend was paid on September 7, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 6, 2018.
The dividend will be paid on December 7, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on November 5, 2018.
Financial Obligations



Senior Secured Credit Facilities



On April 17, 2013, EVERTEC Group entered into a credit agreement (the “2013 Credit Agreement”) governing the senior secured credit facilities, consisting of a $300.0 million term loan A facility (the “Term A Loan”), a $400.0 million term loan B facility (the “Term B Loan”, together with the Term A Loan, the “Senior Secured term loans”) and a $100.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Facility").
During 2016, the Company entered into two separate amendments to the 2013 Credit Agreement.
In the second quarter of 2016, EVERTEC Group, together with certain other direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company, entered into a second amendment and waiver to the outstanding 2013 Credit Agreement (the “Second Amendment”).
In the fourth quarter of 2016, EVERTEC Group, together with certain other direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company, entered into a third amendment (the “Third Amendment”) to the 2013 Credit Agreement.
The Third Amendment extends the maturity of (a) approximately $219 million of EVERTEC Group’s existing approximately $250 million of Term A loan facility to January 17, 2020 (the “2020 Term A Loan”) and (b) $65 million of EVERTEC Group’s existing $100 million of Revolving Facility to January 17, 2020.
The remaining approximately $30 million of Term A loan (the “2018 Term A Loan”) and the $35 million of Revolving Facility were not extended and matured as originally scheduled on April 17, 2018.
The Term B Loan will remain in place and mature as originally scheduled on April 17, 2020.
All loans may be prepaid without premium or penalty.
The unpaid principal balance at September 30, 2018 of the 2020 Term A Loan and the Term B Loan was $191.4 million and $379.0 million, respectively.
The additional borrowing capacity for the Revolving Facility at September 30, 2018 was $65.0 million.
On April 17, 2018, the Company paid the outstanding principal balance of the 2018 Term A loan which matured as 



32

scheduled.
Notes payable



In May 2016, EVERTEC Group entered into a non-interest bearing financing agreement amounting to $0.7 million and in October 2016 entered into an interest bearing agreement of $1.1 million, to purchase software.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the outstanding principal balance of the notes payable is $0.4 million and $1.0 million, respectively.
The current portion of these notes is recorded as part of accounts payable and the long-term portion is included in other long-term liabilities.
Interest Rate Swap



As of September 30, 2018, the Company has the following interest rate swap agreement converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on the Company's Term B Loan from variable to fixed: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company has accounted for this transaction as a cash flow hedge.
The fair value of the Company’s derivative instrument is determined using a standard valuation model.
Inputs used in this standard valuation model for derivative instruments include the applicable forward rates and discount rates.
The discount rates are based on the historical LIBOR Swap rates.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the carrying amount of the derivative on the Company’s balance sheets is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company reclassified losses of $0.1 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense.
Based on current LIBOR rates, the Company expects to reclassify gains of $0.5 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into income through interest expense over the next 12 months.
The cash flow hedge is considered highly effective and no impact on earnings is expected due to hedge ineffectiveness.
Covenant Compliance



The credit facilities contain various restrictive covenants.
The Term A Loan and the Revolving Facility (subject to certain exceptions) require EVERTEC Group to maintain on a quarterly basis a specified maximum senior secured leverage ratio of up to 4.75 to 1.00 as defined in the Third Amendment (total first lien senior secured debt to Adjusted EBITDA per the 2013 Credit Agreement) until September 30, 2018 and 4.25 to 1.00 for any fiscal quarter ending thereafter.
In addition, the 2013 Credit Agreement, among other things: (a) limits EVERTEC Group’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness, incur liens, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments and enter into certain transactions with affiliates; (b) restricts EVERTEC Group’s ability to enter into agreements that would restrict the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or make certain payments to its parent company; and (c) places restrictions on EVERTEC Group’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of their assets.
However, all of the covenants in these agreements are subject to significant exceptions.
As of September 30, 2018, the senior secured leverage ratio was 2.75 to 1.00.
As of the date of filing of this Form 10-Q, no event has occurred that constitutes an Event of Default or Default.
Net Income Reconciliation to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share (Non-GAAP Measures)



We define “EBITDA” as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
We define “Adjusted EBITDA” as EBITDA further adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments described below.
Adjusted EBITDA by segment is 



33

reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance.
For this reason Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting, and is excluded from the definition of non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K. We define “Adjusted Net Income” as net income adjusted to exclude unusual items and other adjustments described below.
We define “Adjusted Earnings per common share” as Adjusted Net Income divided by diluted shares outstanding.
In addition, our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA is substantially consistent with the equivalent measurements that are contained in the senior secured credit facilities in testing EVERTEC Group’s compliance with covenants therein such as the senior secured leverage ratio.
In addition, in evaluating EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses such as those excluded in calculating them.
Some of the limitations of EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted earnings per common share are as follows: 



•they do not reflect cash outlays for capital expenditures or future contractual commitments;



•they do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, working capital;



•although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect cash requirements for such replacements;



•in the case of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, they do not reflect interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest, or principal payments, on indebtedness;



•in the case of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA, they do not reflect income tax expense or the cash necessary to pay income taxes; and



•other companies, including other companies in our industry, may not use EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, and Adjusted Earnings per common share or may calculate EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share differently than as presented in this Report, limiting their usefulness as a comparative measure.
EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share are not measurements of liquidity or financial performance under GAAP.
You should not consider EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share as alternatives to cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of cash flows, as a measure of liquidity or as an alternative to operating or net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
34

A reconciliation of net income to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Earnings per common share is provided below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1)Represents the elimination of non-cash equity earnings from our 19.99% equity investment in Consorcio de Tarjetas Dominicanas S.A., net of cash dividends received.
2)Primarily represents share-based compensation and other compensation expense of $2.4 million for both of the quarters ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Primarily represents share-based compensation and other compensation expense of $9.7 million and $6.6 million for the nine months ended ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 and severance payments $1.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
4)Impairment charge and contractual fee accrual for a third party software solution that was determined to be commercially unviable.
5)Represents operating depreciation and amortization expense, which excludes amounts generated as a result of the Merger and other from purchase accounting intangibles generated from acquisitions.
8)Represents the 35% non-controlling equity interest in Processa, net of amortization for intangibles created as part of the purchase.
35

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements



In the ordinary course of business the Company may enter into commercial commitments.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company did not have any off balance sheet items.
Seasonality



Our payment businesses generally experience moderate increased activity during the traditional holiday shopping periods and around other nationally recognized holidays, which follow consumer spending patterns.
