Item 1.
Financial Statements



FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
See Note 4.
See accompanying notes.
2

FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(Unaudited)



(In thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
3

FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
4

FAIR ISAAC CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



1.
Nature of Business



Fair Isaac Corporation



Incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware, Fair Isaac Corporation (“FICO”) is a provider of analytic, software and data management products and services that enable businesses to automate, improve and connect decisions.
FICO provides a range of analytical solutions, credit scoring and credit account management products and services to banks, credit reporting agencies, credit card processing agencies, insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries.
Consequently, we have not necessarily included all information and footnotes required for audited financial statements.
Effective October 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASU 2014-09”) using the full retrospective method.
In connection with this adoption, the results and related disclosures for the comparative fiscal 2018 periods presented in this Form 10-Q were adjusted to be presented as if ASU 2014‑09 had been in effect during such fiscal 2018 periods.
See New Accounting Pronouncements below and Note 8.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Form 10-Q reflect these changes.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FICO and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
In addition, we use assumptions to estimate the fair value of reporting units and share-based compensation.
Revenue Recognition



Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 8 for further discussion on revenues.
5

New Accounting Pronouncements



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2014-09.
The standard’s core principle is that a reporting entity will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (“full retrospective method”), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (“modified retrospective method”).
We adopted ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the full retrospective method which required us to adjust each prior reporting period presented.
Under the new standard, we recognize revenue when control of the license is transferred to the customer, rather than at the date payments become due and payable when there are extended payment terms, or ratably over the term of the contract as required under the previous standard.
In addition, revenue attributable to a software license renewal is recognized at the beginning of the applicable renewal period rather than at the signing of the renewal agreement as required under the previous standard.
Finally, under the new standard we capitalize and amortize contract acquisition costs such as commissions paid for SaaS cloud services contracts in excess of one year.
Following the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the revenue recognition for our other sales arrangements remained materially consistent with our historical practice.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, we applied the standard’s practical expedients that permit the omission of prior-period information about our performance obligations.
Adoption of the standard impacted our previously reported results as follows:



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” and subsequent amendments to the initial guidance: ASU 2017-13, ASU 2018-10, ASU 2018-11 and ASU 2018-20 (collectively, Topic 842).
Topic 842 requires companies to generally recognize on the balance sheet operating and financing lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets.
Topic 842 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
2.
Fair Value Measurements



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The accounting guidance establishes a three-level hierarchy for disclosure that is based on the extent and level of judgment used to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities.
•Level 1 - uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Our Level 1 assets are comprised of money market funds and certain equity securities.
7

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following tables represent financial assets that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine fair value.
This methodology would apply to our Level 2 investments.
We have not changed our valuation techniques in measuring the fair value of any financial assets and liabilities during the period.
For the fair value of our derivative instruments and senior notes, see Note 3 and Note 7, respectively.
8

3.
Derivative Financial Instruments



We use derivative instruments to manage risks caused by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
We routinely enter into contracts to offset exposures denominated in the British pound, Euro, and Singapore dollar.
The forward contracts are not designated as hedges and are marked to market through other income, net.
The forward contracts are short-term in nature and typically have average maturities at inception of less than three months.
The following tables summarize our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts, by currency, at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The foreign currency forward contracts were entered into on December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively; therefore, their fair value was $0 on each of these dates.
Intangible assets, gross were $110.2 million and $111.0 million as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
Estimated future intangible asset amortization expense associated with intangible assets existing at December 31, 2018 was as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes changes to goodwill during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, both in total and as allocated to our segments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



5.
Composition of Certain Financial Statement Captions



The following table summarizes property and equipment, and the related accumulated depreciation and amortization, at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10

6.
Revolving Line of Credit



We have a $400 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on May 8, 2023 with an option to increase it by another $100 million.
Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions and the repurchase of our common stock.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate, (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500% and (c) the one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.000%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin.
The applicable margin for base rate borrowings ranges from 0% to 0.875% and for LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.875%, and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio.
In addition, we must pay credit facility fees.
The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including maintaining a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.25, subject to a step up to 3.75 following certain permitted acquisitions; and a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.50 through the maturity of our 2010 Senior Notes in July 2020, upon which maintaining a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.00.
The credit agreement also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities.
As of December 31, 2018, we had $325.0 million in borrowings outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 3.839%, of which $125.0 million was classified as a long-term liability and recorded in long-term debt within the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
We were in compliance with all financial covenants under this credit facility as of December 31, 2018.
7.
Senior Notes



On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2010 Senior Notes”).
The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years.
The outstanding 2010 Senior Notes’ weighted average interest rate is 5.6% and the weighted average maturity is 9.8 years.
The 2010 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually and contain certain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a maximum consolidated net debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio of 3.00 and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.50.
As of December 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all financial covenants.
On May 8, 2018, we issued $400 million of senior notes in a private offering to qualified institutional investors (the “2018 Senior Notes”, and with the 2010 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The 2018 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 5.25% per annum and will mature on May 15, 2026.
The purchase agreements for the 2010 Senior Notes and the indenture for the 2018 Senior Notes contain certain covenants typical of unsecured obligations.
The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair values for the Senior Notes at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Amounts exclusive of net debt issuance cost of $5.8 million and $6.1 million at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
We measure the fair value of the Senior Notes based on Level 2 inputs, which include quoted market prices and interest rate spreads of similar securities.
11

8.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers



Contracts with Customers



Our revenue is primarily derived from term-based or perpetual licensing of software and scoring products and solutions, and associated maintenance; SaaS subscription services; scoring and credit monitoring services for consumers; and professional services.
For contracts with customers that contain various combinations of products and services, we evaluate whether the products or services are distinct — distinct products or services will be accounted for as separate performance obligations, while non-distinct products or services are combined with others to form a single performance obligation.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price (“SSP”) basis.
Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers.
Our software offerings often include a perpetual or term-based license and post-contract support or maintenance, both of which generally represent distinct performance obligations and are accounted for separately.
The transaction price is either in the form of a fixed consideration with separate stated prices for license and maintenance, or a sales or usage-based royalty — sometimes subject to a guaranteed minimum — for the license and maintenance bundle.
When the amount is in the form of a fixed consideration, including the guaranteed minimum in sales or usage-based royalty, license revenue from distinct on-premises license is recognized at the point in time when the software or scoring solution is made available to the customer or distributor.
Any royalties not subject to the guaranteed minimum or earned in excess of the minimum amount are recognized as transactional revenue when the subsequent sales or usage occurs.
Revenue allocated to maintenance is generally recognized ratably over the contract period as customers simultaneously consume and receive benefits.
In addition to sales or usage-based royalty on our software and scoring products, transactional revenue is also derived from SaaS contracts in which we provide customers with access to and standard support for our software application either in the FICO® Analytic Cloud or Amazon Web Services (“AWS”), our primary cloud infrastructure provider, on a subscription basis.
The transaction price typically includes a fixed consideration in the form of a guaranteed minimum that allows up to a certain level of usage and a variable consideration in the form of usage or transaction-based fees in excess of the minimum threshold; or usage or transaction-based variable amount not subject to a minimum threshold.
We determined the nature of our SaaS arrangements is to provide continuous access to our hosted application in the cloud, i.e., a stand-ready obligation that comprises a series of distinct service periods (e.g., a series of distinct daily, monthly or annual periods of service).
We estimate the total variable consideration at contract inception — subject to any constraints that may apply — and update the estimates as new information becomes available and recognize the amount ratably over the SaaS service period, unless we determine it is appropriate to allocate the variable amount to each distinct service period and recognize revenue as each distinct service period is performed.
We also derive transactional revenue from credit scoring and monitoring services that provide consumers access to their credit reports and enable them to monitor their credit.
These are provided as either a one-time or ongoing subscription service renewed monthly or annually, all with a fixed consideration.
We determined the nature of the subscription service is a stand-ready obligation to generate credit reports, provide credit monitoring and other services for our customers, which comprises a series of distinct service periods (e.g., a series of distinct daily, monthly or annual periods of service).
Revenue from one-time or monthly subscription services is recognized during the period when service is performed.
Revenue from annual subscription services is recognized ratably over the subscription period.
Professional services include software or SaaS implementation, consulting, model development, training services and premium cloud support.
They are sold either standalone, or together with other products or services and generally represent distinct performance obligations.
The transaction price can be a fixed amount or on a time and materials basis.
Revenue on fixed-price services is recognized using an input method based on labor hours expended which we believe provides a faithful depiction of the transfer of services.
Revenue on services provided on a time and materials basis is recognized applying the “right-to-invoice” practical expedient as the amount to which we have a right to invoice the customer corresponds directly with the value of our performance to the customer.
In addition, we sell premium cloud support on a subscription basis for a fixed amount, and revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term.
12

Disaggregation of Revenue



The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, and timing of revenue recognition, and includes a reconciliation of the disaggregated revenue with reportable segments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Includes license to intellectual property (“IP”) where right to functional IP transfers at a point in time but royalty revenue is only recognized upon subsequent sales or usage (i.e., guaranteed minimums excluded from this line).
We record a contract asset when we satisfy a performance obligation prior to invoicing but our right to consideration is conditional.
We record deferred revenue when the payment is made or due before we satisfy a performance obligation.
The following table provides information about receivables and deferred revenue from contracts with customers.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]* Included in both deferred revenue and other liabilities on our condensed balance sheet at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018.
13

Impairment loss recognized on receivables from contracts with customers during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was immaterial.
Contract assets balance at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018 was immaterial.
Deferred revenue primarily relates to our maintenance and SaaS contracts billed annually in advance and generally recognized ratably over the term of the service period.
Significant changes in the deferred revenues balances during the quarter ended December 31, 2018 are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue recognized in the quarter ended December 31, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was immaterial.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment within 30 to 60 days.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to provide customers with financing or to receive financing from our customers.
Examples include multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront, and invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with revenue recognized ratably over the contract period.
We also applied the transition practical expedient that permits the omission of prior-period information about our performance obligations.
Significant Judgments



Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct and should be accounted for separately may require significant judgment.
Specifically, when implementation service is included in the original software or SaaS offerings, judgment is required to determine if the implementation service significantly modifies or customizes the software or SaaS service in such a way that the risks of providing it and the customization service are inseparable.
When the selling price of a product or service is highly variable, we may use the residual approach to determine the SSP of that product or service.
Significant judgment may be required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation when it involves the consideration of many market conditions and entity-specific factors discussed above.
In order to estimate the total hours of the project, we make assumptions about labor utilization, efficiency of processes, the customer’s specification and IT environment, among others.
Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion.
Capitalized Commission Costs



We capitalize incremental commission fees paid as a result of obtaining customer contracts.
Capitalized commission costs, which are recorded in other assets within the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets, were $28.5 million and $27.1 million at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
Capitalized commission costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over ten years — determined using a portfolio approach — based on the transfer of goods or services to which the assets relate, taking into consideration both the initial and future contracts as we do not typically pay a commission on a contract renewal.
The amount of amortization was $1.2 million and $1.1 million during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and there was no impairment loss in relation to the costs capitalized.
9.
Income Taxes



Effective Tax Rate



The effective income tax rate was (7.7)% and (6.5)% during the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was both impacted by recording of excess tax benefits relating to stock awards that vested in December of both years.
The SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”) in December 2017, which provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, “Accounting for Income Taxes” (“ASC 740”).
Information regarding our adoption and prospective impacts of the Tax Act is included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
We have not yet adopted an accounting policy in regard to GILTI.
The total unrecognized tax benefit for uncertain tax positions is estimated to be $6.5 million and $6.1 million at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
We have accrued interest of $0.4 million and $0.3 million related to unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
10.
Share-Based Payments



We maintain the 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “2012 Plan”) under which we grant equity awards, including stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, stock unit awards and other stock-based awards.
All employees, consultants and advisors of FICO or any subsidiary, as well as all non-employee directors are eligible to receive awards under the 2012 Plan.
We also have awards currently outstanding under the 1992 Long-term Incentive Plan, which was adopted in February 1992 and expired in February 2012.
Stock option awards have a maximum term of seven years.
In general, stock option awards and restricted stock unit awards not subject to market or performance conditions vest annually over four years.
Restricted stock unit awards subject to market or performance conditions vest annually over three years based on the achievement of specified criteria.
Stock Options



The following table summarizes option activity during the quarter ended December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restricted Stock Units



The following table summarizes restricted stock unit activity during the quarter ended December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



16

Performance Share Units



The following table summarizes performance share unit activity during the quarter ended December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Market Share Units



The following table summarizes market share unit activity during the quarter ended December 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11.
There were no options excluded for the quarter ended December 31, 2018.
There were approximately 3,000 options excluded for the quarter ended December 31, 2017.
12.
Segment Information



We are organized into the following three operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment, to align with internal management of our worldwide business operations based on product offerings.
17

•Applications.
This segment includes pre-configured decision management applications designed for a specific type of business problem or process — such as marketing, account origination, customer management, fraud detection, collections and insurance claims management — as well as associated professional services.
These applications are available to our customers as on-premises software, and many are available as hosted, software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) applications through the FICO® Analytic Cloud.
•Scores.
This segment includes our business-to-business credit scoring solutions, our myFICO® solutions for consumers (enabling consumer-level access to and understanding of their credit scores) and associated professional services.
Our credit scoring solutions give our clients access to analytics that can be easily integrated into their transaction streams and decision-making processes.
Our credit scoring solutions are distributed through major credit reporting agencies, as well as services through which we provide our scores to clients directly.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our Chief Executive Officer evaluates segment financial performance based on segment revenues and segment operating income.
Indirect costs are allocated to the segments generally based on relative segment revenues, fixed rates established by management based upon estimated expense contribution levels and other assumptions that management considers reasonable.
These income and expense items are not allocated because they are not considered in evaluating the segment’s operating performance.
Our Chief Executive Officer does not evaluate the financial performance of each segment based on its respective assets, nor capital expenditures where depreciation amounts are allocated to the segments from their internal cost centers as described above.
The following tables summarize segment information for the quarters ended December 31, 2018 and 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



13.
19
