Item 2.
Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
OVERVIEW



We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across their enterprise, an approach we commonly refer to as decision management.
Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO® Score, and our decision management systems leverage the use of big data and mathematical algorithms to predict consumer behavior and power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year.
Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries.
We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® Scores, the standard measure of consumer credit risk in the U.S., and empower them to manage their financial health.
Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer onboarding, customer servicing and management, and customer protection.
We also help businesses improve noncustomer decisions such as transaction and claims processing.
Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients outside the U.S. International revenues accounted for 33% and 37% of total consolidated revenues for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 33% and 36% of total consolidated revenues for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 84% and 72% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 84% and 74% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In addition, we derive a significant share of revenues from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees.
Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 76% and 71% of our revenues during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 75% and 70% of our revenues during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
16

We continue to drive growth in our Scores segment.
Scores revenue increased 34% to $87.9 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 from $65.4 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2017, and 26% to 157.8 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018 from 124.8 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
Scores operating income increased 40% to $71.5 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 from $50.9 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2017, and 29% to $125.5 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018 from $97.0 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, cloud revenues accounted for $63.0 million, or 24% of revenues, compared to $49.8 million, or 22% of revenues during the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018, cloud revenues accounted for $119.5 million, or 24% of revenues, compared to $99.9 million, or 22% of revenues during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
Operating income increased 20% to $48.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 from $40.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 and as a result, net earnings increased 29% to $32.3 million from $25.1 million.
Operating income increased 17% to $88.0 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018 from $75.0 million for the six months ended March 31, 2017, while net earnings decreased 5% to $59.6 million from $63.0 million, primarily due to the income tax expense related to enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, partially offset by the increase in operating income.
We continue to enhance stockholder value by returning cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase program.
During the quarter and six months ended March 31, 2018, we repurchased approximately 0.5 million shares at a total repurchase price of $75.0 million and 0.8 million shares at a total repurchase price of $124.6 million, respectively.
As of March 31, 2018, we had $162.0 million remaining under our current stock repurchase program.
Bookings



Management uses bookings as an indicator of our business performance.
Bookings represent contracts signed in the current reporting period that generate current and future revenue streams.
We consider contract terms, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our customers, among other factors, when determining the estimated value of contract bookings.
Bookings calculations have varying degrees of certainty depending on the revenue type and individual contract terms.
Our revenue types are transactional and maintenance, professional services and license.
Our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results.
The following paragraphs discuss the key assumptions used to calculate bookings and the susceptibility of these assumptions to variability.
Transactional and Maintenance Bookings



We calculate transactional bookings as the total estimated volume of transactions or number of accounts under contract, multiplied by the contractual rate.
Transactional contracts generally span multiple years and require us to make estimates about future transaction volumes or number of active accounts.
We develop estimates from discussions with our customers and examinations of historical data from similar products and customer arrangements.
Differences between estimated bookings and actual results occur due to variability in the volume of transactions or number of active accounts estimated.
We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract.
Professional Services Bookings



We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour.
We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects.
These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer services resources used to complete a project.
17

License Bookings



Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract.
Bookings Trend Analysis



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Bookings yield represents the percentage of revenue recognized from bookings for the periods indicated.
(2)Weighted-average term of bookings measures the average term over which bookings are expected to be recognized as revenue.
(a)NM - Measure is not meaningful as our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update our initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results.
Transactional and maintenance bookings were 46% and 43% of total bookings for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Professional services bookings were 41% and 37% of total bookings for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
License bookings were 13% and 20% of total bookings for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Transactional and maintenance bookings were 40% and 37% of total bookings for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Professional services bookings were 47% and 46% of total bookings for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
License bookings were 13% and 17% of total bookings for the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Revenues



The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our revenues for the quarters and six-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18

Quarter Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Quarter Ended March 31, 2017 



Applications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applications segment revenues increased $12.4 million primarily due to an $8.6 million increase in our originations solutions, a $3.8 million increase in our customer communications services, and a $2.0 million increase in our collections & recovery solutions, partially offset by a $3.3 million decrease in our fraud solutions.
The increase in originations solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional and services revenues from our SaaS products.
The increase in customer communication services was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenue as a result of our continued growth in the mobile communication market.
The increase in collections & recovery solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in services revenue.
The decrease in fraud solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue.
Scores



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Scores segment revenues increased $22.5 million due to an increase of $19.3 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $3.2 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue.
The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional scores in originations, primarily driven by higher unit price in mortgage activities.
The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies.
During the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 11% and 9%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 14% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues.
Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments.
Decision Management Software



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Decision Management Software segment revenues decreased $5.4 million primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue related to our FICO® Blaze Advisor® product.
19

Six Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Six Months Ended March 31, 2017 



Applications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applications segment revenues increased $19.0 million primarily due to a $10.9 million increase in our originations solutions, a $7.8 million increase in our customer communications services, and a $4.6 million increase in our collections & recovery solutions, partially offset by a $5.6 million decrease in our fraud solutions.
The increase in originations solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional and services revenues from our SaaS products.
The increase in customer communication services was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenue as a result of our continued growth in the mobile communication market.
The increase in collections & recovery solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in services and software revenues.
The decrease in fraud solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue, partially offset by an increase in transactional revenue.
Scores



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Scores segment revenues increased $33.0 million due to an increase of $24.3 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $8.7 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue.
The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to a $16.8 million increase in transactional scores in originations, primarily driven by higher unit price in mortgage activities; as well as a $6.8 million increase in transactional scores in account management and prescreen, driven by higher transactional volume.
The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies.
During the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 10% and 8%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 13% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues.
Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments.
Decision Management Software



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Decision Management Software segment revenues decreased $6.8 million primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue related to our FICO® Blaze Advisor®.
Cost of revenue expenses increased $6.4 million to $78.5 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 from $72.1 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily attributable to a $3.1 million increase in facilities and infrastructure costs, driven by increased resource requirement due to expansion in our cloud infrastructure operations, as well as increased headcount; a $1.6 million increase in personnel and labor costs; and a $1.4 million increase in direct materials cost.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 30% during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, materially consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
Cost of revenues expenses increased $10.8 million to $152.9 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018 from $142.1 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
The increase was primarily attributable to a $5.7 million increase in facilities and infrastructure costs and a $3.3 million increase in personnel and labor costs.
The increase in facilities and infrastructure costs was primarily attributable to increased resource requirement due to expansion in our cloud infrastructure operations, as well as increased headcount.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 31% during the six months ended March 31, 2018, materially consistent with that incurred during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
Over the next several quarters, we expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Research and Development



Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Decision Management Software products.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 13% during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 from 12% during the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
The $5.9 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in labor and personnel costs as a result of our continued investment in cloud computing and SaaS, as well as other new products.
Research and development expenses increased $8.7 million to $61.5 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018 from $52.8 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017, primarily attributable to our continued investment in cloud computing and SaaS, as well as other new products.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues was 12% during the six months ended March 31, 2018, consistent with that incurred during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
Over the next several quarters, we expect research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $10.9 million to $97.1 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 from $86.2 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2017, primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount, higher share-based compensation and incentive costs.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was 37% during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, materially consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $16.0 million to $187.4 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018 from $171.4 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017, primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount, higher share-based compensation and incentive costs.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was 38% during the six months ended March 31, 2018, consistent with that incurred during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
22

Over the next several quarters, we expect selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with that incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting.
Our finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from four to fifteen years.
The quarter over quarter decrease in amortization expense of $1.6 million was attributable to certain intangible assets associated with our HNC and Adeptra acquisitions becoming fully amortized in August and September 2017, respectively.
The year-to-date period over period decrease in amortization expense of $3.2 million was attributable to certain intangible assets associated with our HNC and Adeptra acquisitions becoming fully amortized in August and September 2017, respectively.
Over the next several quarters we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Interest Expense, Net



Interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008 and July 2010, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit.
The quarter over quarter increase in interest expense of $0.5 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding balance on our revolving line of credit, partially offset by the $72.0 million principal payment in July 2017 on the senior notes issued in July 2010, resulting in lower average debt balance for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
The year-to-date period over period increase in interest expense of $0.8 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding balance on our revolving line of credit, partially offset by the $72.0 million principal payment in July 2017 on the senior notes issued in July 2010, resulting in lower average debt balance for the six months ended March 31, 2018.
Over the next several quarters we expect net interest expense will be higher than the net interest expense incurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Other Income (Expense), Net



Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized investment gains/losses, exchange rate gains/losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign-currency-denominated receivable and cash balances into their respective functional currencies at period-end market rates, net of the impact of offsetting foreign currency forward contracts and other non-operating items.
23

Provision for Income Taxes



The effective income tax rate was 20.9% and 24.3% during the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 20.3% and (1.9)% during the six months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution.
We remeasured our deferred tax assets using a blended rate of 24.5% — by applying a pro-rated percentage of the number of days before and after the January 1, 2018 effective date — and recorded provisional charges for the remeasurement of the deferred tax assets of $5.6 million to our income tax expense related to long-term deferred tax assets and $3.0 million related to short-term deferred tax assets during the six months ended March 31, 2018.
We are continuing to gather additional information to determine the final impact.
Operating Income



The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our operating income for the quarters and six-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



24

Applications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Scores 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Decision Management Software 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The quarter over quarter $8.0 million increase in operating income was attributable to a $29.5 million increase in segment revenues and a $1.6 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by a $10.3 million increase in segment operating expenses, an $8.3 million increase in corporate expenses and a $4.5 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $10.9 million increase in segment operating income was the result of a $20.5 million increase in our Scores segment operating income and a $4.8 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by an $8.3 million increase in corporate expense and a $6.1 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss.
The quarter over quarter $4.8 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $12.4 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $7.6 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications was 27%, materially consistent with the quarter ended March 31, 2017.
The quarter over quarter $20.5 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $22.4 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $1.9 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 81% from 78% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The quarter over quarter $6.1 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was due to a $5.3 million decrease in segment revenue and a $0.8 million increase in segment operating expenses.
25

The year-to-date period over period increase of $13.0 million in operating income was attributable to a $45.2 million increase in segment revenues and a $3.1 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by an $18.4 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $10.4 million increase in corporate expenses and a $6.5 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
At the segment level, the year-to-date period over period increase of $16.4 million in segment operating income was the result of a $28.5 million increase in our Scores segment operating income and an $8.6 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by a $10.4 million increase in corporate expenses and a $10.3 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss.
The year-to-date period over period $8.6 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $19.0 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $10.4 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications was 27%, materially consistent with the six months ended March 31, 2017.
The year-to-date period over period $28.5 million increase in Scores segment operating income was attributable to a $33.0 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $4.5 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 80% from 78%, mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The year-to-date period over period $10.3 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was attributable to a $6.8 million decrease in segment revenue and a $3.5 million increase in segment operating expenses.
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY



Outlook



As of March 31, 2018, we had $107.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, which included $94.4 million held off-shore by our foreign subsidiaries.
We believe these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $600 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements as well as the $131.0 million principal payment due in May 2018 on our senior notes issued in May 2008.
Under our current financing arrangements, we have no other significant debt obligations maturing over the next twelve months.
Depending on market conditions, we may refinance some of our current debt during 2018.
We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents to fund such activities in the future.
In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities.
Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all.
Summary of Cash Flows 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



26

Cash Flows from Operating Activities



Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $78.0 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018 from $99.4 million during the six months ended March 31, 2017.
The $21.4 million decrease was mainly attributable to a $26.8 million decrease that resulted from timing of receipts and payments in our ordinary course of business.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities increased to $13.3 million for six months ended March 31, 2018 from $9.6 million for the six months ended March 31, 2017.
The $3.7 million increase was attributable to a $2.2 million increase in purchases, net of proceeds from sale, of marketable securities as well as a $1.5 million increase in purchases of property and equipment.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities increased to $64.7 million for the six months ended March 31, 2018 from $48.7 million for the six months ended March 31, 2017.
The $16.0 million increase was mainly due to a $50.0 million increase in repurchases of common stock, a $7.4 million decrease in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and a $3.5 million increase in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by a $44.0 million increase in proceeds, net of payments, from our revolving line of credit.
Repurchases of Common Stock



In July 2016, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program.
This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
In October 2017, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program following the completion of the July 2016 program.
The new program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Pursuant to the October 2017 program, we repurchased 461,003 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $75.0 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, and pursuant to the July 2016 and October 2017 programs, we repurchased 795,921 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $124.6 million during the six months ended March 31, 2018.
We had $162.0 million remaining under the October 2017 authorization as of March 31, 2018.
Revolving Line of Credit



We have a $600 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on December 30, 2019.
Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions, and the repurchase of our common stock.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate, (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500% and (c) the one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.000%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin.
The applicable margin for base rate borrowings ranges from 0% to 0.875% and for LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.875%, and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio.
In addition, we must pay credit facility fees.
The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including maintaining a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.5 and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.0, subject to a step up to 3.5 following certain permitted acquisitions.
The credit agreement also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities.
As of March 31, 2018, we had $460.0 million in borrowings outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 2.973% and were in compliance with all financial covenants under this credit facility.
Depending on market conditions, we may refinance some of our debt in 2018.
27

Senior Notes



On May 7, 2008, we issued $275 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2008 Senior Notes”).
The 2008 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 5 to 10 years.
The outstanding 2008 Senior Notes’ weighted average interest rate is 7.2% and the weighted average maturity is 10.0 years.
On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2010 Senior Notes” and, with the 2008 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years.
The 2010 Senior Notes’ weighted average interest rate is 5.6% and the weighted average maturity is 9.8 years.
The Senior Notes are subject to certain restrictive covenants that are substantially similar to those in the credit agreement for the revolving credit facility, including maintenance of consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios.
The purchase agreements for the Senior Notes also include covenants typical of unsecured facilities.
As of March 31, 2018, the carrying value of the Senior Notes was $243.9 million and we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these facilities.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:



Revenue Recognition



Software Licenses



Software license fee revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, software is made available to our customers, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable.
The determination of whether fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable involves the use of assumptions.
If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.
If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectability is not probable, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectability becomes probable or the receipt of payment.
If there is uncertainty as to the customer’s acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance, expiration of the acceptance period, or when we can demonstrate we meet the acceptance criteria.
We evaluate contract terms and customer information to ensure that these criteria are met prior to our recognition of license fee revenue.
We use the residual method to recognize revenue when a software arrangement includes one or more elements to be delivered at a future date provided the following criteria are met: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of the fair value does not exist for one or more of the delivered items but exists for all undelivered elements, (ii) all other applicable revenue recognition criteria are met and (iii) the fair value of all of the undelivered elements is less than the arrangement fee.
VSOE of fair value is based on the normal pricing practices for those products and services when sold separately by us and customer renewal rates for post-contract customer support services.
Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue.
If evidence of the fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, the revenue is deferred and recognized when delivery of those elements occurs or when fair value can be established.
Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and change to a product’s estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue.
28

Revenues from post-contract customer support services, such as software maintenance, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the support period.
The majority of our software maintenance agreements provide technical support as well as unspecified software product upgrades and releases when and if made available by us during the term of the support period.
Transactional-Based Revenues



Transactional-based revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is probable.
Revenues from our credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services are recognized as these services are performed.
Revenues from transactional or unit-based license fees under software license arrangements, credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services agreements are recognized based on minimum contractual amounts or on system usage that exceeds minimum contractual amounts.
Certain of our transactional-based revenues are based on transaction or active account volumes as reported by our clients.
Consulting Services



We provide consulting, training, model development and software integration services under both hourly-based time and materials and fixed-priced contracts.
Revenues from these services are generally recognized as the services are performed.
For fixed-price service contracts, we use a proportionate performance model with hours as the input method of attribution to determine progress towards completion, with consideration also given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable.
In such instances, management is required to estimate the total estimated hours of the project.
Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion.
Estimated losses, if any, are recorded in the period in which current estimates of total contract revenue and contract costs indicate a loss.
If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance of services exists, we defer the associated revenue until the contract is completed.
In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license element, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method.
We consider a deliverable to have standalone value if we sell this item separately or if the item is sold by another vendor or could be resold by the customer; for example, we conclude professional services offered along with our SaaS subscription services typically have standalone value using this criteria.
Further, our revenue arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to delivered products.
Revenue for multiple element arrangements is allocated to the software and non-software deliverables based on a relative selling price.
We use VSOE in our allocation of arrangement consideration when it is available.
We define VSOE as a median price of recent standalone transactions that are priced within a narrow range, as defined by us.
If a product or service is seldom sold separately, it is unlikely that we can determine VSOE.
In circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we then assess whether we can obtain third-party evidence (“TPE”) of the selling price.
The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact if the product or service were sold by us on a standalone basis.
Our determination of ESP involves weighting several factors based on the specific facts and circumstances of each arrangement.
Historically, there have been no significant changes in our ESP used in allocation of arrangement consideration.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.
If a deliverable does not have standalone value because the aforementioned criteria are not met, we combine it with the other applicable undelivered item(s) within the arrangement and account for the multiple deliverables as one combined unit of accounting.
For example, for hosting arrangements requiring a highly specialized and unique set of initial implementation and setup services prior to the commencement of hosting services, we typically conclude that these implementation or setup services do not have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis; therefore, we combine them with the hosting services as a combined unit of accounting.
Revenue is recognized upon commencement of our hosting services over the expected life of the customer relationship.
Gross vs. Net Revenue Reporting



We apply accounting guidance to determine whether we report revenue for certain transactions based upon the gross amount billed to the customer, or the net amount retained by us.
In accordance with the guidance we record revenue on a gross basis for sales in which we have acted as the principal and on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction.
Business Combinations



Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values.
Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
30

Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to: (i)future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; (ii) expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and (iii) the acquired company’s brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined company’s product portfolio.
Historically, there have been no significant changes in our estimates or assumptions.
To the extent a significant acquisition is made during a fiscal year, as appropriate we will expand the discussion to include specific assumptions and inputs used to determine the fair value of our acquired intangible assets.
In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date.
We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.
Goodwill, Acquisition Intangibles and Other Long-Lived Assets - Impairment Assessment



Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations.
We assess goodwill for impairment for each of our reporting units on an annual basis during the fourth quarter using a July 1 measurement date unless circumstances require a more frequent measurement.
We have determined that our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments.
When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may first perform an assessment qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, referred to as a “step zero” approach.
If, based on the review of the qualitative factors, we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we would bypass the two-step impairment test.
If we conclude that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount, we would perform the first step (“step one”) of the two-step impairment test and calculate the estimated fair value of the reporting unit by using discounted cash flow valuation models and by comparing our reporting units to guideline publicly-traded companies.
For example, if the economic environment impacts our forecasts beyond what we have anticipated, it could cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its respective carrying value.
For fiscal 2017, we elected to proceed directly to the step one quantitative analysis for all of our reporting units, as three years had elapsed since the date of our previous quantitative valuation.
There was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value for each of our reporting units and we determined goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2017.
When impairment indicators are identified, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows.
If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset.
Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows.
We review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets at each reporting period.
A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods.
Share-Based Compensation



We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the stock award (generally three to four years).
We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to determine the fair value of our stock options and the Monte Carlo valuation model to determine the fair value of our market share units.
Our valuation models and generally accepted valuation techniques require us to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards.
Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions.
We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach.
The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the technical merits of the tax position indicate it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes.
Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions and they are evaluated on a quarterly basis.
A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above.
32

Contingencies and Litigation



We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, stockholder and other matters.
Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses.
Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.
New Accounting Pronouncements



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” (“ASU 2014-09”).
ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers.
ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method.
In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-14, “Deferral of the Effective Date” (“ASU 2015-14”), which defers the effective date for ASU 2014-09 by one year.
For public entities, the guidance in ASU 2014-09 will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted to the original effective date of December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those periods).
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-08, “Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue versus Net)” (“ASU 2016-08”), which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard.
In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-10, “Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing” (“ASU 2016-10”), which reduces the complexity when applying the guidance for identifying performance obligations and improves the operability and understandability of the license implementation guidance.
In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-12 “Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients” (“ASU 2016-12”), which amends the guidance on transition, collectability, noncash consideration and the presentation of sales and other similar taxes.
In December 2016, the FASB further issued ASU 2016-20, “Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASU 2016-20”), which makes minor corrections or minor improvements to the Codification that are not expected to have a significant effect on current accounting practice or create a significant administrative cost to most entities.
The amendments are intended to address implementation issues that were raised by stakeholders and provide additional practical expedients to reduce the cost and complexity of applying the new revenue standard.
These amendments have the same effective date as the new revenue standard.
Preliminarily, we plan to adopt Topic 606 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method, and are continuing to evaluate the impact our pending adoption of Topic 606 will have on our consolidated financial statements.
We have established a cross-functional implementation team consisting of representatives across the organization to address the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard.
This cross-functional implementation team has developed a project plan, which includes evaluating customer contracts across the organization, developing policies, processes and tools to report financial results, and implementing and evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting that will be necessary under the new standard.
We currently plan to adopt Topic 606 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method.
As we continue to assess the new standard along with industry trends and additional interpretive guidance, we may adjust our implementation plan accordingly.
Under the new standard, we expect to recognize revenue when control of the license is transferred to the customer, rather than at the date payments become due and payable or ratably over the term of the contract required under the current standard;



33

•Presentation of contract balances.
Under the new standard, when we enter into noncancellable contracts that provide unconditional rights to payment from our customers for services that we have not yet completed providing or services we will provide in the near future, we expect to present the unconditional rights as receivables, regardless of whether cash has been received from customers; 



•Required disclosures including information about remaining transaction price and when we expect to recognize revenue; and



•Accounting for commissions under the new standard will result in the deferral of incremental commission costs for obtaining contracts.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory” (“ASU 2016-16”).
ASU 2016-16 requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset, other than inventory, when the transfer occurs.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2018.
ASU 2016-16 should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings at the beginning of the period of adoption.
Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of an annual reporting period for which financial statements (interim or annual) have not been issued.
We do not believe that adoption of ASU 2016-16 will have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” (“ASU 2016-02”), which requires lessees to put most leases on their balance sheets but recognize the expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to current practice.
ASU 2016-02 states that a lessee would recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
