PART II – OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings



Not Applicable.
Item 1A.
We continue to expand the pursuit of our business objective to become a leader in helping businesses automate and improve decisions across their enterprises, an approach that we commonly refer to as Decision Management, or “DM.” Our DM strategy is designed to enable us to increase our business by selling multiple products to clients, as well as to enable the development of custom client solutions that may lead to opportunities to develop new proprietary scores or other new proprietary products.
Our DM strategy is also increasingly focused on the delivery of our products through cloud-based deployments.
The market may be unreceptive to our general DM business approach, including being unreceptive to purchasing multiple products from us, unreceptive to our customized solutions, or unreceptive to our cloud-based offerings.
We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of products and services, and if the market does not continue to accept these products and services, our revenues will decline.
We expect that revenues derived from our scoring solutions, fraud solutions, customer communication services, customer management solutions and decision management software will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future.
Our revenues will decline if the market does not continue to accept these products and services.
Factors that might affect the market acceptance of these products and services include the following:



•changes in the business analytics industry;



•changes in technology;



•our inability to obtain or use key data for our products;



•saturation or contraction of market demand;



•loss of key customers;



•industry consolidation;



•failure to successfully adopt cloud-based technologies;



•failure to execute our selling approach; and



•inability to successfully sell our products in new vertical markets.
We expect that part of the growth that we seek to achieve through our DM strategy will be derived from the sale of DM products and service solutions in industries and markets we do not currently serve.
We also expect to grow our business by delivering our DM solutions through additional distribution channels.
39

If we are unable to develop successful new products or if we experience defects, failures and delays associated with the introduction of new products, our business could suffer serious harm.
Our growth and the success of our DM strategy depend upon our ability to develop and sell new products or suites of products, including the development and sale of our cloud-based product offerings.
If we are unable to develop new products, or if we are not successful in introducing new products, we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate.
In the past, we have experienced delays while developing and introducing new products and product enhancements, primarily due to difficulties developing models, acquiring data, and adapting to particular operating environments or certain client or other systems.
We have also experienced errors or “bugs” in our software products, despite testing prior to release of the products.
Software errors in our products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products.
We rely on relatively few customers, as well as our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, for a significant portion of our revenues and profits.
Many of our customers are significantly larger than we are and may have greater bargaining power.
The businesses of our largest customers depend, in large part, on favorable macroeconomic conditions.
Most of our customers are relatively large enterprises, such as banks, credit card processors, insurance companies, healthcare firms, telecommunications providers, retailers and public agencies.
As a result, many of our customers and potential customers are significantly larger than we are and may have sufficient bargaining power to demand reduced prices and favorable nonstandard terms.
In addition, the U.S. and other key international economies have experienced in the past a downturn in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy.
The European Union (“E.U.”) continues to face great economic uncertainty which could impact the overall world economy or various other regional economies.
The potential for economic disruption presents considerable risks to our business, including potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions with which we have substantial relationships.
We also derive a substantial portion of our revenues and operating income from our contracts with the three major credit reporting agencies, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax, and other parties that distribute our products to certain markets.
The loss of or a significant change in a relationship with one of these credit reporting agencies with respect to their distribution of our products or with respect to our myFICO® offerings, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a major customer, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a significant third-party distributor (including credit card processors), or the delay of significant revenues from these sources, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.
We rely on relationships with third parties for marketing, distribution and certain services.
If we experience difficulties in these relationships, our future revenues may be adversely affected.
Most of our products rely on distributors, and we intend to continue to market and distribute our products through existing and future distributor relationships.
Our Scores segment relies on, among others, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax.
In addition, certain of our distributors presently compete with us and may compete with us in the future, either by developing competitive products themselves or by distributing competitive offerings.
For example, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax have developed a credit scoring product to compete directly with our products and are collectively attempting to sell the product.
Competition from distributors or other sales and marketing partners could significantly harm sales of our products and services.
40

Our acquisition and divestiture activities may disrupt our ongoing business and may involve increased expenses, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals contemplated at the time of a transaction.
We have acquired and expect to continue to acquire companies, businesses, products, services and technologies.
Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:



•our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities;



•an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate acquired operations or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for our investments, or otherwise not realize the expected return, which could adversely affect our business or operating results;



•we may be unable to retain the key employees, customers and other business partners of the acquired operation;



•we may have difficulties entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions;



•our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities we assume from an acquired company, business, product or technology, including claims by government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company we would not have otherwise entered into; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company’s practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes;



•we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company, business, product or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition;



•we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew their contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis;



•we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies;



•our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness;



•to the extent we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and



•we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements we assume from an acquisition.
We have also divested ourselves of businesses in the past and may do so again in the future.
Divestitures involve significant risks and uncertainties, including:



•disruption of our ongoing business;



•reductions of our revenues or earnings per share;



•unanticipated liabilities, legal risks and costs;



•the potential loss of key personnel;



•distraction of management from our ongoing business; and



•impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of migrating a business to new owners.
Acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside the U.S. will increase our exposure to the risks of conducting operations in international markets.
Charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results.
Under business combination accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in acquired companies generally at their acquisition-date fair values and separately from goodwill.
Goodwill is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date.
Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain.
After we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows:



41

•impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, or a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;



•amortization of intangible assets acquired;



•identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first;



•costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses;



•charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; and



•charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition.
Substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred.
Charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities.
A more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 2).
Our reengineering initiative may cause our growth prospects and profitability to suffer.
As part of our management approach, we implemented an ongoing reengineering initiative designed to grow revenues through strategic resource allocation and improve profitability through cost reductions.
Our reengineering initiative may not be successful over the long term as a result of our failure to reduce expenses at the anticipated level, or a lower, or no, positive impact on revenues from strategic resource allocation.
Because many of our operating expenses are fixed and will not be affected by short-term fluctuations in revenues, short-term fluctuations in revenues may significantly impact operating results.
42

Our products have long and variable sales cycles.
We experience difficulty in forecasting our revenues accurately because the length of our sales cycles makes it difficult for us to predict the quarter in which sales will occur.
In addition, our selling approach is complex as we look to sell multiple products and services across our customers’ organizations.
This makes forecasting of revenues in any given period more difficult.
For example, the sales cycle for licensing our products typically ranges from 60 days to 18 months.
Customers are often cautious in making decisions to acquire our products because purchasing our products typically involves a significant commitment of capital and may involve shifts by the customer to a new software and/or hardware platform or changes in the customer’s operational procedures.
This may cause customers, particularly those experiencing financial stress, to make purchasing decisions more cautiously.
Delays in completing sales can arise while customers complete their internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures and test and accept our applications.
Large portions of our customer agreements are consummated in the weeks immediately preceding quarter end.
Before these agreements are consummated, we create and rely on forecasted revenues for planning, modeling and earnings guidance.
Consequently, significant discrepancies between actual and forecasted results could limit our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate guidance, which could adversely affect our stock price.
Any publicly-stated revenue or earnings projections are subject to this risk.
The failure to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business.
Our DM strategy and our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, technical support and management personnel.
The complexity of our products requires highly trained customer service and technical support personnel to assist customers with product installation and deployment.
The labor market for these individuals is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding and may become more competitive with general market and economic improvement.
We cannot be certain that our compensation strategies will be perceived as competitive by current or prospective employees.
This could impair our ability to recruit and retain personnel.
We have experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel, especially technical, sales and consulting personnel, and we may need additional staff to support new customers and/or increased customer needs.
We may also recruit skilled technical professionals from other countries to work in the U.S., and from the U.S. and other countries to work abroad.
Limitations imposed by immigration laws in the U.S. and abroad and the availability of visas in the countries where we do business could hinder our ability to attract necessary qualified personnel and harm our business and future operating results.
There is a risk that even if we invest significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we will not succeed in our efforts, and our business could be harmed.
The failure of the value of our stock to appreciate may adversely affect our ability to use equity and equity-based incentive plans to attract and retain personnel, and may require us to use alternative and more expensive forms of compensation for this purpose.
The failure to obtain certain forms of model construction data from our customers or others could harm our business.
Our business requires that we develop or obtain a reliable source of sufficient amounts of current and statistically relevant data to analyze transactions and update our products.
In most cases, these data must be periodically updated and refreshed to enable our products to continue to work effectively in a changing environment.
We do not own or control much of the data that we require, most of which is collected privately and maintained in proprietary databases.
Customers and key business alliances provide us with the data we require to analyze transactions, report results and build new models.
Our DM strategy depends in part upon our ability to access new forms of data to develop custom and proprietary analytic tools.
If we fail to maintain sufficient data sourcing relationships with our customers and business alliances, or if they decline to provide such data due to privacy concerns, competition concerns, prohibitions or a lack of permission from their customers or partners, we could lose access to required data and our products, and the development of new products, might become less effective.
43

We will continue to rely upon proprietary technology rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our business could be harmed.
This protection of our proprietary technology is limited, and our proprietary technology could be used by others without our consent.
In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products.
There can be no assurance that our protection of our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad will be adequate or that others, including our competitors, will not use our proprietary technology without our consent.
Some of our technologies were developed under research projects conducted under agreements with various U.S. government agencies or subcontractors.
Although we have commercial rights to these technologies, the U.S. government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies developed by us under these contracts, and in some cases can terminate our rights in these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis.
Under these contracts with the U.S. government, the results of research may be made public by the government, limiting our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on our research.
We expect that products in the industry segments in which we compete, including software products, will increasingly be subject to claims of patent and other intellectual property infringement as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grow.
Our business requires the storage, transmission and utilization of sensitive consumer and customer information.
Many of our products are provided by us through the Internet.
Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, the unauthorized disclosure of consumer or customer information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability.
Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
Malicious third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services.
Security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our distributors, by our customers or by us may lead to public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity.
Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to curtail or cease their use of our products and services, cause regulatory or industry changes that impact our products and services, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.
Protection from system interruptions is important to our business.
If we experience system interruptions, it could harm our business.
These interruptions can include software or hardware malfunctions, communication failures, outages or other failures of third party environments or service providers, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, equipment failures and other events beyond our control.
Risks Related to Our Industry



Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services.
If the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may decline.
We have a significant share of the available market in portions of our Scores segment and for certain services in our Applications segment, specifically, the markets for account management services at credit card processors and credit card fraud detection software.
To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance.
We believe much of the future growth of our business and the success of our DM strategy will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer markets for our products and services.
Such areas are relatively new to our product development and sales and marketing personnel.
Products that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development.
We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept these products.
In our markets, technology changes rapidly, and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, database technologies, cloud-based technologies and the use of the Internet.
We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors, and this inability could impair our capacity to sell our products.
The market for business analytics is new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition in this market to persist and intensify.
Our regional and global competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer, and include:



•in-house analytic and systems developers; 



•scoring model builders; 



•enterprise resource planning, customer relationship management, and customer communication and mobility solution providers;



•business intelligence solutions providers;



•credit report and credit score providers; 



•business process management and decision rules management providers;



•process modeling tools providers;



•automated application processing services providers; 



•data vendors; 



•neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders;



•third-party professional services and consulting organizations; 



•account/workflow management software providers; 



•software tools companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools; collections and recovery solutions providers; entity resolution and social network analysis solutions providers; and



•cloud-based customer engagement and risk management solutions providers.
For example, certain of our fraud solutions products compete against other methods of preventing credit card fraud, such as credit cards that contain the cardholder’s photograph; smart cards; cardholder verification and authentication solutions; biometric measures on devices including fingerprint and face matching; and other card authorization techniques and user verification techniques.
Many of our anticipated competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, professional services and other resources than we do, and industry consolidation is creating even larger competitors in many of our markets.
They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to develop, promote and sell their products.
Many of these companies have extensive customer relationships, including relationships with many of our current and potential customers.
Furthermore, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share.
For example, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax have formed an alliance that has developed a credit scoring product competitive with our products.
Our competitors may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices individually or as part of integrated suites of several related products.
New legislation or regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, may also negatively impact our business and increase our costs of doing business.
Laws and governmental regulation affect how our business is conducted and, in some cases, subject us to the possibility of government supervision and future lawsuits arising from our products and services.
Laws and governmental regulation also influence our current and prospective customers’ activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services.
Laws and regulations that may affect our business and our current and prospective customers’ activities include, but are not limited to, those in the following significant regulatory areas:



•Use of data by creditors and consumer reporting agencies (e.g., the U.S. Fair Credit Reporting Act); 



46

•Laws and regulations that limit the use of credit scoring models (e.g., state “mortgage trigger” or “inquiries” laws, state insurance restrictions on the use of credit-based insurance scores, and the E.U.
Consumer Credit Directive);



•Fair lending laws (e.g., the U.S.
Truth In Lending Act and Regulation Z, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, and the Fair Housing Act);



•Privacy and security laws and regulations that limit the use and disclosure of personally identifiable information, require security procedures, or otherwise apply to the collection, processing, storage, use and transmission of protected data (e.g., the U.S. Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the Gramm Leach Bliley Act; the E.U.
Data Protection Directive and the country-specific regulations that implement that directive; the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act; the Cybersecurity Act of 2015; the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Cybersecurity Framework; and identity theft, file freezing, security breach notification and similar state privacy laws);



•Extension of credit to consumers through the Electronic Fund Transfers Act and Regulation E, as well as non‑governmental VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards;



•Regulations and guidelines applicable to secondary market participants (e.g., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) that could have an impact on our products;



•Laws and regulations applicable to our customer communication clients and their use of our products and services (e.g., the Telemarketing Sales Rule, Telephone Consumer Protection Act and regulations promulgated thereunder);



•Laws and regulations applicable to our insurance clients and their use of our insurance products and services;



•The application or extension of consumer protection laws, including implementing regulations (e.g., the Consumer Financial Protection Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, the Military Lending Act, and the Credit Repair Organizations Act);



•Laws and regulations governing the use of the Internet and social media, telemarketing, advertising, endorsements and testimonials; 



•Anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act); 



•Financial regulatory standards (e.g., Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements to maintain and verify internal process controls, including controls for material event awareness and notification);



•Regulatory requirements for managing third parties (e.g., vendors, contractors, suppliers and distributors);



•Anti-money laundering laws and regulations (e.g., the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA Patriot Act);



•Financial regulatory reform stemming from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the many regulations mandated by that Act, including regulations issued by, and the supervisory and investigative authority of, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection; and



•Laws and regulations regarding export controls as they apply to FICO products delivered in non-U.S. countries.
In addition, many U.S. and foreign jurisdictions have passed, or are currently contemplating, a variety of consumer protection, privacy, and data security laws and regulations that may relate to our business or affect the demand for our products and services.
For example, on April 14, 2016, the European Parliament formally adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”), which will supersede the existing Data Protection Directive of 95/46/EC in 2018.
The GDPR imposes more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and greater penalties for noncompliance.
The costs and other burdens of compliance with privacy and data security laws and regulations could negatively impact the use and adoption of our solutions and reduce overall demand for them.
Additionally, concerns regarding data privacy may cause our customers, or their customers and potential customers, to resist providing the data necessary to allow us to deliver our solutions effectively.
Even the perception that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our solutions and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations could lead to significant fines, penalties or other liabilities.
In addition to existing laws and regulations, changes in the U.S. or foreign legislative, judicial, regulatory or consumer environments could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The laws and regulations above, and changes to them, could affect the demand for or profitability of our products, including scoring and consumer products.
New laws and regulations pertaining to our customers could cause them to pursue new strategies, reducing the demand for our products.
47

Our revenues depend, to a great extent, upon conditions in the banking (including consumer credit) and insurance industries.
During fiscal 2017, 76% of our revenues were derived from sales of products and services to the banking and insurance industries.
Global economic uncertainty experienced in the U.S. and other key international economies in the past produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions.
The potential for disruptions presents considerable risks to our businesses and operations.
These risks include potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions, many of which are our customers.
Such disruption would result in a decline in the revenue we receive from financial and other institutions.
While the rate of account growth in the U.S. bankcard industry has been slow and many of our large institutional customers have consolidated in recent years, we have generated most of our revenue growth from our bankcard-related scoring and account management businesses by selling and cross-selling our products and services to large banks and other credit issuers.
As the banking industry continues to experience contraction in the number of participating institutions, we may have fewer opportunities for revenue growth due to reduced or changing demand for our products and services that support customer acquisition programs of our customers.
In addition, industry contraction could affect the base of recurring revenues derived from contracts in which we are paid on a per-transaction basis as formerly separate customers combine their operations under one contract.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent future revenue contraction or effectively promote future revenue growth in our businesses.
While we are attempting to expand our sales of consumer credit, banking and insurance products and services into international markets, the risks are greater as these markets are also experiencing substantial disruption and we are less well-known in them.
Purchases of technology products and services and decisioning solutions are subject to adverse economic conditions.
When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases, and we experience softened demand for our decisioning solutions and other products and services.
Global economic uncertainty has produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets in the past.
Any economic uncertainty can negatively affect the businesses and purchasing decisions of companies in the industries we serve.
The potential for disruptions presents considerable risks to our businesses and operations.
If global economic conditions experience stress and negative volatility, or if there is an escalation in regional or global conflicts or terrorism, we will likely experience reductions in the number of available customers and in capital expenditures by our remaining customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity.
For example, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U., commonly referred to as “Brexit.” As a result of the referendum, on March 29, 2017, the U.K. triggered Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty formally starting negotiations regarding its exit from the E.U.
The U.K. has two years to complete these negotiations, and the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U.
remains unknown.
Whether or not recent or new legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment.
Given the volatile nature of the global economic environment and the uncertainties underlying efforts to stabilize it, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, as well as contingencies or developments, which may include regulatory developments and trends in new products and services.
A growing portion of our revenues is derived from international sales.
During fiscal 2017, 36% of our revenues were derived from business outside the U.S. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the U.S., including opportunities in countries with economic systems that are in early stages of development and that may not mature sufficiently to result in growth for our business.
These factors include:



•general economic and political conditions in countries where we sell our products and services;



•difficulty in staffing and efficiently managing our operations in multiple geographic locations and in various countries;



•effects of a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including restrictions on access to personal information;



•import and export licensing requirements;



•longer payment cycles;



•reduced protection for intellectual property rights;



•currency fluctuations;



•changes in tariffs and other trade barriers; and



•difficulties and delays in translating products and related documentation into foreign languages.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address each of these challenges in the near term.
Additionally, some of our business will be conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.
Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are not currently material to our cash flows, financial position or results of operations.
However, an increase in our foreign revenues could subject us to increased foreign currency transaction risks in the future.
In addition to the risk of depending on international sales, we have risks incurred in having research and development personnel located in various international locations.
We currently have a substantial portion of our product development staff in international locations, some of which have political and developmental risks.
If such risks materialize, our business could be damaged.
Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders.
These provisions include giving our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval.
The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future.
The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock.
These factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock.
Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes.
We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
49

Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)In October 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program.
This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
In July 2018, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program following the completion of the October 2017 program.
The new program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities



Not applicable.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures



Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information



Not applicable.
50

Item 6.
Exhibits 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



*Filed herewith.
51
