Item 2.
Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
OVERVIEW



We use analytics to help businesses automate, improve and connect decisions across their enterprise — an approach we commonly refer to as decision management.
Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO® Score, and our decision management systems leverage the use of big data and mathematical algorithms to predict, categorize, and describe consumer behavior in order to power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year.
Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries.
We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO® Scores, the standard measure of consumer credit risk in the U.S., and empower them to manage their financial health.
Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer onboarding, customer servicing and management, and customer protection.
We also help businesses improve non-customer decisions such as streamlining transaction and claims processing, optimizing logistics, and identifying and quantifying security risk.
Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals.
We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients outside the U.S. International revenues accounted for 35% and 33% of total consolidated revenues for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 34% of total consolidated revenues for each of the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 88% and 86% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 87% and 85% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In addition, we derive a significant share of revenues from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under credit scoring, data processing, data management and SaaS subscription services arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees.
Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 72% and 75% of our revenues during the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for 74% and 75% of our revenues during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
21

We continue to drive growth in our Scores segment.
Scores revenue increased 27% to $115.1 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from $90.8 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and 24% to $305.2 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $246.4 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Scores operating income increased 33% to $99.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from $74.5 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and 31% to $259.7 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $197.7 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
For our Applications and Decision Management Software segments, cloud business continues to grow as we pursue our cloud-first strategy.
Cloud revenues increased 19% to $69.3 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from $58.1 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018, and 12% to $199.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $177.4 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Operating income increased 92% to $85.7 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from $44.5 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 and as a result, net earnings increased 116% to $64.2 million from $29.7 million.
Operating income increased 43% to $183.3 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $127.8 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and as a result, net earnings increased 47% to $137.5 million from $93.8 million.
We continue to enhance stockholder value by returning cash to stockholders through our stock repurchase program.
During the quarter and nine months ended June 30, 2019, we repurchased approximately 0.2 million shares at a total repurchase price of $59.2 million and 0.8 million shares at a total repurchase price of $178.9 million, respectively.
As of June 30, 2019, we had $20.3 million remaining under our then-current stock repurchase program.
Bookings



Management uses bookings as an indicator of our business performance.
Bookings represent contracts signed in the current reporting period that generate current and future revenue streams.
We consider contract terms, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our customers, among other factors, when determining the estimated value of contract bookings.
Bookings calculations have varying degrees of certainty depending on the revenue type and individual contract terms.
Our revenue types are transactional and maintenance, professional services and license.
Our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results.
The following paragraphs discuss the key assumptions used to calculate bookings and the susceptibility of these assumptions to variability.
Transactional and Maintenance Bookings



We calculate transactional bookings as the total estimated volume of transactions or number of accounts under contract, multiplied by the contractual rate.
Transactional contracts generally span multiple years and require us to make estimates about future transaction volumes or number of active accounts.
We develop estimates from discussions with our customers and examinations of historical data from similar products and customer arrangements.
Differences between estimated bookings and actual results occur due to variability in the volume of transactions or number of active accounts estimated.
We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract.
22

Professional Services Bookings



We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour.
We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects.
Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred.
These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer services resources used to complete a project.
License Bookings



Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract.
Bookings Trend Analysis



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Bookings yield represents the percentage of revenue recognized from bookings for the periods indicated.
(2)Weighted-average term of bookings measures the average term over which bookings are expected to be recognized as revenue.
(a)NM - Measure is not meaningful as our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update our initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results.
Transactional and maintenance bookings were 48% and 43% of total bookings for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Professional services bookings were 37% and 46% of total bookings for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
License bookings were 15% and 11% of total bookings for the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Transactional and maintenance bookings were 46% and 41% of total bookings for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Professional services bookings were 40% and 47% of total bookings for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
License bookings were 14% and 12% of total bookings for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
23

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Revenues



The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our revenues for the quarters and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Quarter Ended June 30, 2019 Compared to Quarter Ended June 30, 2018 



Applications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applications segment revenues increased $27.0 million primarily due to a $28.5 million increase in our fraud solutions and a $3.3 million increase in our customer communication services, partially offset by a $5.3 million decrease in our customer management solutions.
The increase in fraud solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in license and transactional revenues.
The increase in customer communication services was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenue as a result of our continued growth in the mobile communication market.
The decrease in customer management solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue.
24

Scores



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Scores segment revenues increased $24.3 million due to an increase of $22.1 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $2.2 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue.
The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to a higher unit price in auto activities.
The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies.
During the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 13% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 16% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenues.
Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments.
Decision Management Software



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Decision Management Software segment revenues increased $8.0 million primarily attributable to an increase in both of our license sales and SaaS subscription revenue.
Nine Months Ended June 30, 2019 Compared to Nine Months Ended June 30, 2018 



Applications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



25

Applications segment revenues increased $29.8 million primarily due to a $38.4 million increase in our fraud solutions and a $5.9 million increase in our customer communication services, partially offset by a $9.1 million decrease in our originations solutions and a $5.2 million decrease in our customer management solutions.
The increase in fraud solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in license and transactional revenues.
The increase in customer communication services was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenue as a result of our continued growth in the mobile communication market.
The decrease in our originations solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in services and transactional revenues.
The decrease in customer management solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in license and services revenues.
Scores



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Scores segment revenues increased $58.9 million due to an increase of $52.9 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $6.0 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue.
The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to a higher unit price in mortgage and auto activities.
The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies.
During the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian accounted for 13% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues, and revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax and TransUnion together accounted for 13% and 14%, respectively, of our total revenues.
Revenues from these customers included amounts recorded in our other segments.
Decision Management Software



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Decision Management Software segment revenues increased $22.5 million primarily attributable to an increase in both of our license sales and SaaS subscription revenue, as well as an increase in services revenues related to our Decision Management Platform product.
26

Operating Expenses and Other Income / Expenses



The following tables set forth certain summary information related to our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarters and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



27

Cost of Revenues



Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee salaries and benefits for personnel directly involved in developing, installing and supporting revenue products; travel costs; overhead costs; outside services; internal network hosting costs; software royalty fees; and credit bureau data and processing services.
The quarter over quarter increase in cost of revenue expenses of $8.2 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased to 28% during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from 31% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased to 29% during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from 31% during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products.
Research and Development



Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Decision Management Software products.
The quarter over quarter increase in research and development expenses of $4.5 million was primarily attributable to an increase in labor and personnel costs.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 12% during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from 13% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products.
The year-to-date period over period increase in research and development expenses of $16.1 million was primarily attributable to an increase in labor and personnel costs.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues was 13% during the nine months ended June 30, 2019, consistent with that incurred during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Over the next several quarters, we expect research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be slightly higher than that incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
The quarter over quarter increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $5.5 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 33% during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 from 38% during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products.
The year-to-date period over period increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $24.2 million was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor costs as a result of increased headcount, higher share-based compensation and higher non-capitalizable commission cost.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 36% during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from 38% during the nine months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to increased sales of our high-margin Scores and software products.
28

Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting.
Our finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from four to fifteen years.
Amortization expense was $1.4 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 versus $1.6 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2018.
Amortization expense was $4.5 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 versus $5.0 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Over the next several quarters, we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
Interest Expense, Net



Interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008, July 2010 and May 2018, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit.
Our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income include interest expense netted with interest income, which is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements.
The quarter over quarter increase in interest expense of $1.9 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding debt balance during the quarter ended June 30, 2019, as well as a higher average interest rate on our 2018 Senior Notes compared to that on our revolving line of credit.
The year-to-date period over period increase in interest expense of $8.0 million was primarily attributable to a higher average outstanding debt balance during the nine months ended June 30, 2019, as well as a higher average interest rate on our 2018 Senior Notes compared to that on our revolving line of credit.
Over the next several quarters, we expect net interest expense will be consistent with the net interest expense incurred during the quarter ended June 30, 2019.
Other Income, Net



Other income, net consists primarily of realized investment gains/losses, exchange rate gains/losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign-currency-denominated receivable and cash balances into their respective functional currencies at period-end market rates, net of the impact of offsetting foreign currency forward contracts and other non-operating items.
Provision for Income Taxes



The effective income tax rate was 17.8% and 21.6% during the quarters ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 11.4% and 13.1% during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution.
The effective tax rate for both the nine months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was impacted by recording of excess tax benefits relating to stock awards that vested in December of both years.
29

Operating Income



The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our operating income for the quarters and nine-month periods ended June 30, 2019 and 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Applications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



30

Scores 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Decision Management Software 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The quarter over quarter $41.2 million increase in operating income was attributable to a $59.3 million increase in segment revenues and a $0.1 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by a $13.5 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $4.0 million increase in corporate expenses and a $0.7 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $41.8 million increase in segment operating income was the result of a $24.8 million increase in our Scores segment operating income, a $20.3 million increase in our Applications segment operating income and a $0.7 million decrease in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss, partially offset by a $4.0 million increase in corporate expense.
The quarter over quarter $20.3 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $27.0 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $6.7 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications increased to 32% from 23% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin software products, partially offset by an increase in labor and personnel costs.
The quarter over quarter $24.8 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $24.3 million increase in segment revenue and a $0.5 million decrease in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 86% from 82% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The quarter over quarter $0.7 million decrease in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was due to an $8.0 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $7.3 million increase in segment operating expenses.
The year-to-date period over period increase of $55.5 million in operating income was attributable to a $111.1 million increase in segment revenues and a $0.6 million decrease in amortization cost, partially offset by a $36.3 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $12.6 million increase in corporate expenses and a $7.3 million increase in share-based compensation cost.
31

At the segment level, the year-to-date period over period increase of $62.2 million in segment operating income was the result of a $62.1 million increase in our Scores segment operating income and a $13.9 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by a $12.6 million increase in corporate expenses and a $1.2 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss.
The year-to-date period over period $13.9 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $29.8 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by a $15.9 million increase in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications increased to 27% from 26% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin software products, partially offset by an increase in labor and personnel costs.
The year-to-date period over period $62.1 million increase in Scores segment operating income was attributable to a $58.9 million increase in segment revenue and a $3.2 million decrease in segment operating expenses.
Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 85% from 80%, mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin score products.
The year-to-date period over period $1.2 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was attributable to a $23.6 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by a $22.4 million increase in segment revenue.
CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY



Outlook



As of June 30, 2019, we had $78.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, which included $61.8 million held off-shore by our foreign subsidiaries.
We believe these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $400 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements as well as the $28.0 million principal payment due in July 2019 on our senior notes issued in July 2010.
Under our current financing arrangements, we have no other significant debt obligations maturing over the next twelve months.
We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents to fund such activities in the future.
In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities.
Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all.
Summary of Cash Flows 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



32

Cash Flows from Operating Activities



Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $164.9 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $163.1 million during the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
The $1.8 million increase was attributable to a $43.8 million increase in net income and a $13.8 million increase in non-cash items, including a $7.3 million increase in non-cash share-based compensation expense, partially offset by a $55.8 million decrease that resulted from timing of receipts and payments in our ordinary course of business.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities decreased to $20.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $26.7 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities increased to $156.1 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2019 from $117.8 million for the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
The $38.3 million increase was primarily attributable to a $269.0 million decrease in proceeds, net of payments, from our senior notes, partially offset by a $167.0 million decrease in payments, net of proceeds, from our revolving line of credit, a $50.6 million decrease in repurchases of common stock and a $13.6 million increase in proceeds from issuance of treasury stock under employee stock plans.
Repurchases of Common Stock



In July 2018, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program.
This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Pursuant to the July 2018 program, we repurchased 205,182 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $59.2 million and 780,182 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $178.9 million during the quarter and nine months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
In July 2019, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program following the completion of the July 2018 program.
The new program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions.
Revolving Line of Credit



We have a $400 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on May 8, 2023.
Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions, and the repurchase of our common stock.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate, (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500% and (c) the one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.000%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin.
The applicable margin for base rate borrowings ranges from 0% to 0.875% and for LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.875%, and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio.
In addition, we must pay credit facility fees.
The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including: maintaining a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.25, subject to a step up to 3.75 following certain permitted acquisitions; and a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.5 through the maturity of our 2010 Senior Notes in July 2020, upon which maintaining a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.00.
The credit agreement also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities.
As of June 30, 2019, we had $315.0 million in borrowings outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 3.781% and were in compliance with all financial covenants under this credit facility.
33

Senior Notes



On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the “2010 Senior Notes”).
The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years.
The outstanding 2010 Senior Notes’ weighted average interest rate is 5.6% and the weighted average maturity is 9.8 years.
The 2010 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually and contain certain restrictive covenants, including the maintenance of a maximum consolidated net debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio of 3.00 and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.50.
On May 8, 2018, we issued $400 million of senior notes in a private offering to qualified institutional investors (the “2018 Senior Notes”, and with the 2010 Senior Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The 2018 Senior Notes require interest payments semi-annually at a rate of 5.25% per annum and will mature on 2026-05-15.
The purchase agreements for the 2010 Senior Notes and the indenture for the 2018 Senior Notes contain certain covenants typical of unsecured obligations.
As of June 30, 2019, the carrying value of the Senior Notes was $513.0 million and we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these obligations.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:



Revenue Recognition



Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to our customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
See Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on revenues.
Business Combinations



Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values.
Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
34

Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date, including our estimates for intangible assets, contractual obligations assumed, pre-acquisition contingencies and contingent consideration, where applicable.
Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to: (i) future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; (ii) expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and (iii) the acquired company’s brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined company’s product portfolio.
Historically, there have been no significant changes in our estimates or assumptions.
To the extent a significant acquisition is made during a fiscal year, as appropriate we will expand the discussion to include specific assumptions and inputs used to determine the fair value of our acquired intangible assets.
In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date.
We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.
Goodwill, Acquisition Intangibles and Other Long-Lived Assets - Impairment Assessment



Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations.
We assess goodwill for impairment for each of our reporting units on an annual basis during the fourth quarter using a July 1 measurement date unless circumstances require a more frequent measurement.
We have determined that our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments.
When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may first perform an assessment qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, referred to as a “step zero” approach.
If, based on the review of the qualitative factors, we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we would bypass the two-step impairment test.
If we conclude that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount, we would perform the first step (“step one”) of the two-step impairment test and calculate the estimated fair value of the reporting unit by using discounted cash flow valuation models and by comparing our reporting units to guideline publicly-traded companies.
These methods require estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital, and other relevant factors, as well as selecting appropriate guideline publicly-traded companies for each reporting unit.
Using assumptions that are different from those used in our estimates, but in each case reasonable, could produce significantly different results and materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit.
For example, if the economic environment impacts our forecasts beyond what we have anticipated, it could cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its respective carrying value.
For fiscal 2018, we performed a step zero qualitative analysis for our annual assessment of goodwill impairment.
Consequently, we did not perform a step one quantitative analysis and determined goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2018.
When impairment indicators are identified, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows.
If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset.
Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows.
We review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets at each reporting period.
A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods.
Share-Based Compensation



We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the stock award (generally three to four years).
We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to determine the fair value of our stock options and the Monte Carlo valuation model to determine the fair value of our market share units.
Our valuation models and generally accepted valuation techniques require us to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards.
Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions.
It was effective starting in our first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”) in December 2017, which provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 740, “Accounting for Income Taxes” (“ASC 740”).
Information regarding our adoption and prospective impacts of the Tax Act is included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
We have not yet adopted an accounting policy in regard to GILTI.
36

We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach.
The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the technical merits of the tax position indicate it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes.
Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions and they are evaluated on a quarterly basis.
A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under “Business Combinations” above.
Contingencies and Litigation



We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, stockholder and other matters.
If the potential loss is considered less than probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, disclosure of the matter is considered.
Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses.
Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions.
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates.
New Accounting Pronouncements



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09.
The standard’s core principle is that a reporting entity will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (“full retrospective method”), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (“modified retrospective method”).
We adopted ASU 2014-09 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the full retrospective method which required us to adjust each prior reporting period presented.
Under the new standard, we recognize revenue when control of the license is transferred to the customer, rather than at the date payments become due and payable when there are extended payment terms, or ratably over the term of the contract as required under the previous standard.
In addition, revenue attributable to a software license renewal is recognized at the beginning of the applicable renewal period rather than at the signing of the renewal agreement as required under the previous standard.
Additionally, under the new standard, when we enter into noncancellable contracts that provide unconditional rights to payment from our customers for services we have not yet completed or services we will provide in the near future, we present receivables — our unconditional rights to payments — and deferred revenues on a gross basis, rather than on a net basis.
Finally, under the new standard we capitalize and amortize contract acquisition costs such as commissions paid for SaaS cloud services contracts in excess of one year.
Following the adoption of ASU 2014-09, the revenue recognition for our other sales arrangements remained materially consistent with our historical practice.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, we applied the standard’s practical expedients that permit the omission of prior-period information about our performance obligations.
See Note 1 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion on the impact of the standard adoption on our previously reported results.
37

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments” and subsequent amendments to the initial guidance: ASU 2018-19, ASU 2019-04 and ASU 2019-05 (collectively, “Topic 326”).
Topic 326 requires measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held.
Topic 326 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2020.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of Topic 326 on our consolidated financial statements.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842)” and subsequent amendments to the initial guidance: ASU 2017-13, ASU 2018-10, ASU 2018-11, ASU 2018-20 and ASU 2019-01 (collectively, “Topic 842”).
Topic 842 requires companies to generally recognize on the balance sheet operating and financing lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets.
Topic 842 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of our pending adoption of Topic 842 on our consolidated financial statements.
We expect that most of our operating leases will be recognized as right-of-use assets and corresponding lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, which will increase our total assets and total liabilities upon adoption.
We do not expect that any other recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a significant effect on our financial statements.
