ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
1



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
2



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
3



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
4



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 1.Basis of Presentation



The accompanying consolidated financial statements of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (the “Company”) are unaudited and have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2018.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No.
2016-18, "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash" ("ASU 2016-18").
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-18 on a retrospective basis.
This update clarifies guidance on the classification and presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The amendment requires restricted cash be included in an entity's cash and cash-equivalent balances in the statement of cash flows and also requires an entity to disclose information about the nature of the restrictions.
Further, a reconciliation between the statement of financial position and the statement of cash flows must be disclosed when the statement of financial position includes more than one line item for cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and restricted cash equivalents.
The Company's adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
FASB ASU No.
2017-01, "Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business" ("ASU 2017-01").
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2017-01.
The amendments in this update clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
The Company's adoption of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
FASB ASU No.
2014-09, "Revenue - Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09").
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and all the related amendments ("new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") using the modified retrospective method to those contracts not yet completed as of January 1, 2018.
As a result, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $1.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis.
FASB ASU No.
2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory" ("ASU 2016-16").
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-16, which eliminates the exception of recognizing, at the time of transfer, current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity asset transfers other than inventory.
This new standard has been applied on a modified retrospective transition basis with an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $80.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
5



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 1.
Basis of Presentation - (Continued)



Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements - (Continued)



The cumulative effect of the changes made to the Company's consolidated January 1, 2018 balance sheet for the adoption of ASU 2014-09, "Revenue - Revenue from Contracts with Customers" and ASU 2016-16, "Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory" were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* During the three-month period ended September 30, 2018, the Company recorded an additional deferred tax asset related to a prior period non-inventory intra-entity asset transfer that was not originally recorded upon adoption of ASU 2016-16 in the three-month period ended March 31, 2018.
Consequently, an immaterial adjustment has been made to the table above related to the inclusion of the deferred income tax assets and corresponding impact to retained earnings in the amount of $74.4 million as of January 1, 2018.
In accordance with the new revenue standard requirements, the disclosure of the impact of adoption on our consolidated income statement and balance sheet was as follows (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For additional disclosures required by the new revenue standard see Note 2, "Revenue."
6



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 2.Revenue



Revenue Recognition



The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
See Note 18.
"Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Contract Balances



The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis.
The Company had no material deferred contract costs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
Contract assets: The Company recognizes unbilled receivables as contract assets when the Company has rights to consideration for work completed but has not yet billed at the reporting date.
Unbilled receivables are included within accounts receivable, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The balance of unbilled receivables as of September 30, 2018 and at the date of adoption of ASC 606 were $10.1 million and $14.1 million, respectively.
Contract Liabilities: The Company records contract liabilities when cash payments are received or due in advance of the Company's performance.
Contract liabilities include deferred revenue and advance payments from customers.
Contract liabilities are classified as either current or long-term in the Consolidated Balance Sheets based on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize revenue.
As of September 30, 2018 and at the date of the adoption of ASC 606, contract liability balances classified as long-term totaled $14.6 million and $13.8 million, respectively, and are included within pension and other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Approximately $36.4 million of revenue recognized during the nine month period ended September 30, 2018 was included in the combined opening contract liability balances adjusted for the ASC 606 adoption impacts.
Remaining Performance Obligations



Remaining performance obligations related to ASC 606 represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.
While the remaining performance obligation disclosure is similar in concept to backlog, the definition of remaining performance obligations excludes contracts that provide the customer with the right to cancel or terminate for convenience with no substantial penalty, even if historical experience indicates the likelihood of cancellation or termination is remote.
The Company has elected to exclude contracts with customers with an original term of one year or less from remaining performance obligations while these contracts are included within backlog.
7



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 2.Revenue - (Continued)



Remaining Performance Obligations - (Continued)



As of September 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $82.4 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 78 percent of the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months, and the remainder recognized thereafter.
Note 3.Stock-based Compensation



Stock Incentive Plans



The Company has a stock-based compensation program that provides equity incentives for employees, consultants and directors.
This program includes incentive and non-statutory stock options and non-vested stock awards (referred to as restricted stock unit awards) granted under two plans: the FLIR Systems, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2002 Plan”) and the FLIR Systems, Inc. 2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2011 Plan”).
The Company has discontinued issuing awards out of the 2002 Plan but previously-granted awards under the 2002 Plan remain outstanding.
The Company has granted time-based options, time-based restricted stock unit awards, market-based restricted stock unit awards and performance-based restricted stock unit awards.
Options generally expire ten years from the grant date.
Time-based options and restricted stock unit awards generally vest over a three year period.
Market-based restricted stock unit awards may be earned based upon the Company's total shareholder return compared to the total shareholder return of the component company at the 60th percentile level in the S&P 500 Index over a three year period.
Performance-based restricted stock unit awards granted during the year ended December 31, 2016 may be earned based upon the Company's return on invested capital over a three year period.
Performance-based restricted stock unit awards granted during the year ended December 31, 2017 may be earned based upon the Company's operating margin performance over a three year period.
Performance-based restricted stock unit awards granted during the quarter ended June 30, 2018 may be earned based upon a combination of the Company's revenue and operating performance over a three year period.
Certain shares vested under the performance-based restricted stock unit awards and the market-based restricted stock unit awards must be held by the participant for a period of one year from the vest date.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan



The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “ESPP”) which allows employees to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at the lower of either the date of enrollment or the purchase date.
The ESPP provides for six-month offerings commencing on May 1 and November 1 of each year with purchases on April 30 and October 31 of each year.
Shares purchased under the ESPP must be held by employees for a period of at least 18 months after the date of purchase.
The following table sets forth the stock-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Stock-based compensation expense capitalized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



8



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 3.Stock-based Compensation - (Continued)



As of September 30, 2018, the Company had approximately $56.4 million of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.2 years.
Note 4.Net Earnings Per Share



The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the numerator and denominator utilized in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of stock-based compensation awards for three and nine months ended September 30, 2017, which in the aggregate consisted of 147,000 and 83,000 shares, respectively, have been excluded for purposes of diluted earnings per share since the effect of their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
There were no shares excluded for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Note 5.Fair Value of Financial Instruments



Factors used in determining the fair value of financial assets and liabilities are summarized into three broad categories in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurements”:



Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical securities as of the reporting date;



Level 2 – other significant directly or indirectly observable inputs, including quoted prices for similar securities, interest rates, prepayment speeds, credit risk, and observable market prices for identical instruments that are traded in less active markets; and



Level 3 – significant inputs that are generally less observable than objective sources, including our own assumptions in determining fair value.
The factors or methodology used for valuing securities are not necessarily an indication of the risk associated with investing in those securities.
The Company had $134.9 million and $140.7 million of cash equivalents at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which were primarily investments in money market funds and overnight deposits.
The Company has categorized its cash equivalents as a Level 1 financial asset, measured at fair value based on quoted prices in active markets of identical assets.
All cash equivalents are in instruments that are convertible to cash daily.
The fair value of the Company’s foreign currency contracts as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, are disclosed in Note 6, "Derivative Financial Instruments," and are based on Level 2 inputs.
The fair value of the Company’s senior unsecured notes as described in Note 14, "Long-Term Debt," is approximately $418.7 million and $427.5 million based upon Level 2 inputs at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company does not have any other significant financial assets or liabilities that are measured at fair value.
9



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 6.
Derivative Financial Instruments



Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk



The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts not formally designated as hedges to manage the consolidated exchange rate risk associated with the remeasurement of non-functional currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
Changes in fair value of foreign currency forward contracts are recognized in income at the end of each reporting period based on the difference between the contract rate and the spot rate.
In general, these gains and losses are offset in the Consolidated Statements of Income by the reciprocal gains and losses from the underlying assets or liabilities which originally gave rise to the exposure.
The net amount of the gains and losses related to derivative instruments recorded in other expense (income), net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were a net gain of $1.5 million and a net loss of $7.1 million, respectively.
The net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 were a net gain of $0.2 million and a net loss of $7.3 million, respectively.
The table below presents the net notional amounts of the Company’s outstanding foreign currency forward contracts by currency (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At September 30, 2018, the Company’s foreign currency forward contracts, in general, had maturities of three months or less.
The carrying amounts of the foreign exchange contracts included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 7.Accounts Receivable



Accounts receivable are net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $5.5 million and $7.6 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Note 8.Inventories



Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 9.
Property and Equipment



Property and equipment are net of accumulated depreciation of $329.6 million and $306.2 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Note 10.Goodwill



In August 2017, the Company announced a realignment of its business operations into three reportable operating segments effective as of January 1, 2018.
Because of this realignment, the Company reassigned its reported goodwill as of January 1, 2018 to its new reportable segments based on the relative fair value of the respective operating segments at that time.
Goodwill was reallocated as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



After the reassignment of goodwill, the Company performed an impairment test of the new reporting units as of January 1, 2018.
As a result of this analysis, no impairment was identified.
The reassignment and impairment test were completed during the three months ended June 30, 2018.
See Note 18, "Operating Segments and Related Information" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the three new reportable operating segments.
The carrying value of goodwill and the activity for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 11.
Intangible Assets



Intangible assets are net of accumulated amortization of $94.4 million and $84.5 million at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Note 12.Credit Agreement



On February 8, 2011, the Company entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.
and other lenders, as amended on April 5, 2013, October 27, 2015 and May 31, 2016 (the "Credit Agreement") which provides for a $500 million revolving line of credit.
At September 30, 2018, the Company had no amounts outstanding under its revolving credit facility and had $14.5 million of letters of credit outstanding governed by the facility, which reduces the total available revolving credit under the Credit Agreement to $485.5 million.
11



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 13.Accrued Product Warranties



The following table summarizes the Company’s warranty liability and activity (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 14.
Long-Term Debt



Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In June 2016, the Company issued $425 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2021 (the “2016 Notes”).
The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2016 Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years.
Interest on the 2016 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15.
The proceeds from the 2016 Notes were used to repay the principal amount of the notes issued in August 2011 and outstanding in July 2016 and are being used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions and repurchases of the Company’s common stock.
Note 15.Shareholders’ Equity



The following table summarizes the common stock and additional paid-in capital activity during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased 2.0 million shares of the Company's common stock through open market transactions, including 1.0 million shares received from the accelerated share repurchase program, entered in March 2018 at a notional amount of $50.0 million.
The repurchases were under the February 2017 authorization by the Company's Board of Directors which authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of the Company's outstanding common stock.
This authorization expires in February 2019.
12



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 15.Shareholders’ Equity - (Continued)



On September 7, 2018, the Company paid a dividend of $0.16 per share on its outstanding common stock to the shareholders of record as of the close of business on August 24, 2018.
The total cash payments for dividends during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $66.5 million.
Note 16.Contingencies



Matters Involving the United States Department of State and Department of Commerce 



On April 24, 2018, the Company entered into a Consent Agreement with the United States Department of State Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance (“DDTC”) to resolve allegations regarding the unauthorized export of technical data and defense services to dual and third country nationals from certain Company facilities, the failure to properly use and manage export licenses and export authorizations, and failures to report certain payments under 22 CFR Part 130 in potential violation of the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (“ITAR”).
The Consent Agreement has a four-year term and provides for: (i) a civil penalty of $30 million with $15 million of this amount suspended on the condition that the funds have or will be used for Department-approved Consent Agreement remedial compliance measures, (ii) the appointment of an external Special Compliance Official to oversee compliance with the Consent Agreement and the ITAR; (iii) two external audits of the Company’s ITAR compliance program; and (iv) continued implementation of ongoing remedial compliance measures and additional remedial compliance measures related to automated systems and ITAR compliance policies, procedures, and training.
During the three-month period ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded a $15 million charge for the portion of the penalty that is not subject to suspension.
As of September 30, 2018, the remaining amount payable of $3.5 million and $10.5 million has been recorded in other current liabilities and pension and other long-term liabilities, respectively.
The Company expects recent and future investments in remedial compliance measures will be sufficient to cover the $15 million suspension amount.
As part of the Consent Agreement, DDTC acknowledged that the Company voluntarily disclosed certain of the alleged Arms Export Control Act and ITAR violations, which were resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement, cooperated in the DDTC's review, and instituted a number of compliance program improvements.
In May 2017, the Company submitted an initial notification to DDTC regarding potential violations related to certain export classifications obtained through the commodity jurisdiction process and a final voluntary disclosure in August 2017.
DDTC acknowledged the notification and at the request of DDTC, the Company executed a tolling agreements for this matter, suspending the statute of limitations through January 13, 2019.
This matter was not resolved pursuant to the Consent Agreement identified above and remains under review.
In June 2017, the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security informed the Company of additional export licensing requirements that restrict the Company’s ability to sell certain thermal products without a license to customers in China not identified on a list maintained by the United States Department of Commerce.
This action was precipitated by concerns of sale without a license or potential diversion of some of the Company's products to prohibited end users and to countries subject to economic and other sanctions implemented by the United States.
The United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security subsequently favorably modified these restrictions to reduce the applicability of the restrictions to sales of FLIR's Tau camera cores (as opposed to finished products containing Tau camera cores) to customers in China not identified on a list maintained by the United States Department of Commerce and persons in a country other than those in EAR Country Group A:5 (Supplement No.
1 to Part 740 of the EAR).
If the Company is found to have violated applicable rules and regulations with respect to customers and limitations on the export and end use of the Company’s products, the Company could be subject to substantial fines and penalties, suspension of existing licenses or other authorizations and/or loss or suspension of export privileges.
The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the time it may take to resolve these matters or the amount or range of potential loss, penalty or other government action, if any, that may be incurred in connection with these matters.
However, an unfavorable outcome could result in substantial fines and penalties or loss or suspension of export privileges or of particular authorizations that could be material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in and following the period in which such an outcome becomes estimable or known.
13



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 16.Contingencies - (Continued)



SkyWatch Product Quality Matters



In March 2016, the Company learned of potential quality concerns with respect to as many as 315 Level III and Level IV SkyWatch Surveillance Towers sold by FLIR and companies acquired by FLIR from 2002 through 2014.
The Company notified customers who purchased the affected SkyWatch Towers of the potential concerns and, as a precautionary measure, also temporarily suspended production of all Level III and Level IV SkyWatch Towers pending the completion of its review and the implementation of any necessary remedial measures.
The Company identified the cause of these quality issues, notified customers of their option to request repair and modification of their in-field units, and has begun in-field repairs of identified affected units.
While there still remains uncertainty related to estimating the costs associated with a potential remedy and number of units which may require such remedy, the Company currently estimates the range of potential loss on remaining units to be between $5.2 million and $12.4 million.
As no single amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount within the range, the Company has recorded an accrual of $5.2 million in other current liabilities as of September 30, 2018.
Other Matters



The Company is also subject to other legal and administrative proceedings, investigations, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business not specifically identified above.
The Company believes it has recorded adequate provisions for any probable and estimable losses for matters in existence on the date hereof.
The Company reviews these provisions to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular matter.
The costs to resolve all such matters may in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Note 17.Income Taxes



The provision for income taxes was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, is lower than the United States Federal tax rate of 21.0 percent mainly due to excess tax benefits from stock compensation and a reduction in the accrual for the U.S. transition tax, offset partially by state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions, and other discrete items.
In connection with the Company's initial analysis of the impact of the Tax Act, the Company recorded provisional net tax expense of $94.4 million for the period ended December 31, 2017.
This amount consists of net expense of $66.5 million for the transition tax and net expense of $12.8 million for the remeasurement of the Company's net deferred tax assets using the reduced United States tax rate.
In addition, the Company also recorded net tax expense of $15.1 million for state income and foreign taxes estimated to be due upon distribution of approximately $1.0 billion of previously undistributed foreign earnings no longer permanently reinvested as of December 31, 2017.
However, during the quarter ending September 30, 2018, the Company recognized a measurement period adjustment resulting in a $9.9 million reduction of tax expense.
In addition, the Company reduced by $0.6 million the estimated state and foreign liability for tax due upon distribution of approximately $902.0 million of previously undistributed foreign earnings no longer permanently reinvested as of December 31, 2017.
The Company continues to gather additional information and expects to complete the accounting for the Tax Act within the measurement period prescribed in Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had approximately $63.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits, all of which would affect the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized.
The Company anticipates approximately $46.7 million of its net unrecognized tax benefits will be recognized within 12 months as the result of settlements or effective settlements with various tax authorities, the closure of certain audits and the lapse of the applicable statute of limitations.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had $6.8 million of accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as current and non-current accrued income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In 2016, the Company, in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, "Income Taxes," recorded discrete tax charges totaling $39.6 million related to the January 11, 2016 announcement from the European Commission of a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation were deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid.
As a result of this decision, the European Commission directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of the Company’s international subsidiaries.
The Belgian Government announced they have appealed this decision and filed action for an annulment in the General Court of the European Union, and in July 2016 the Company filed a separate appeal with the General Court of the European Union.
On January 10, 2017, the Company received tax assessments from the Belgium government approximating the discrete tax charge recorded during 2016, which the Company has classified as current taxes payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
The Company filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and on October 23, 2018 the Belgian government canceled $33.0 million of the tax assessments.
As a result, the Company expects to reverse a similar amount of previously accrued income tax plus interest associated with the assessments during the three-month period ending December 31, 2018.
In addition, the Company expects the euro equivalent of $35.7 million held in a restricted cash account as of September 30, 2018 to become unrestricted during the three-month period ending December 31, 2018.
The appeal with the General Court of the European Union or other future events may cause the remaining income tax provision associated with the European Commission decision to be entirely or partially reversed.
During the quarter ending September 30, 2018, the Swedish Tax Authority (“STA”) issued a proposed tax assessment for the tax year ending December 31, 2012 to one of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries in Sweden.
The proposed assessment concerns the use of tax credits applied against capital gains pursuant to European Union Council Directive 2009/133/EC, commonly referred to as the EU Merger Directive, and indicates a suggested decision to assess taxes and penalties totaling approximately $$300.0 million (Swedish kroner 2.8 billion).
The Company believes the STA’s assertions in the proposed assessment are not in accordance with Swedish tax regulations and plans to defend the Company's positions with the STA and through the Swedish court system, as necessary.
Consequently, no adjustment to the Company's unrecognized tax benefits has been recorded in relation to this matter.
15



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 17.Income Taxes - (Continued)



The Company currently has the following tax years open to examination by major taxing jurisdictions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 18.
Operating Segments and Related Information



Operating Segments



The Company has three reportable operating segments as follows:



Industrial Business Unit



The Industrial business unit develops and manufactures thermal and visible-spectrum imaging camera cores and components that are utilized by third parties to create thermal, industrial, and other types of imaging systems.
The segment also develops and manufactures devices that image, measure, and assess thermal energy, gases, and other environmental elements for industrial, commercial, and scientific applications, imaging payloads for Unmanned Aerial Systems ("UAS"), machine vision cameras, people counting and tracking, and thermal imaging solutions for use by consumers in the smartphone and mobile devices markets.
Products include thermal imaging cameras, gas detection cameras, firefighting cameras, process automation cameras, and environmental test and measurement devices.
Government and Defense Business Unit



The Government & Defense business unit develops and manufactures enhanced imaging and recognition solutions for a wide variety of military, law enforcement, public safety, and other government customers around the world for the protection of borders, troops, and public welfare.
The segment also develops and manufactures sensor instruments and integrated platform solutions for the detection, identification, and suppression of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosives ("CBRNE") threats for military force protection, homeland security, and commercial applications.
Offerings include airborne, land, maritime, and man-portable multi-spectrum imaging systems, radars, lasers, imaging components, integrated multi-sensor system platforms, CBRNE detectors, nano-class UAS solutions, and services related to these systems.
Commercial Business Unit



The Commercial business unit develops and manufactures cameras, video recording systems, and video management systems for use in commercial and critical infrastructure, electronics and imaging instruments for the recreational and commercial maritime market, intelligent traffic monitoring and signal control systems, and hand-held and weapon-mounted thermal imaging systems for use in a variety of applications.
Products include thermal and visible-spectrum security cameras, digital and networked video recorders, and related software and accessories, a full suite of networked marine electronic systems including multi-function helm displays, navigational instruments, autopilots, radars, sonar systems, thermal and visible imaging systems, and communications equipment for boats of all sizes, traffic cameras, sensors and associated traffic management software, and thermal scopes and handheld thermal cameras.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), its Chief Executive Officer, evaluates each of its segments’ performance and allocates resources based on revenue and segment operating income.
Intersegment revenues are recorded at cost and are eliminated in consolidation.
The Company and each of its segments employ consistent accounting policies.
16



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 18.
Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)



Operating Segments - (Continued)



The following tables present revenue, operating income, and assets for the three segments.
Operating income as reviewed by the CODM is revenue less cost of goods sold and operating expenses, excluding general corporate expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets, amortization of acquisition-related inventory step-up, loss on sale of a business and restructuring and other charges.
Net accounts receivable, inventories and demonstration assets for the operating segments are regularly reviewed by management and are reported below as segment assets.
All remaining assets, liabilities, capital expenditures, and depreciation are managed on a Company-wide basis.
Operating segment information is as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



A reconciliation of the Company's consolidated segment operating income to consolidated earnings before income taxes is as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Unallocated corporate expenses include general corporate expenses, acquisition related costs and executive transition costs.
17



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 18.
Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)



Operating Segments - (Continued)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



___________



(1) Due to the realignment of the Company's business operations effective as of January 1, 2018, goodwill as of December 31, 2017 is presented as an asset not allocated to the operating segments in this table.
See Note 10.
"Goodwill" for additional information and goodwill by operating segments as of January 1, 2018.
Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area



Information related to revenue by significant geographical location, determined by the end customer, is as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 18.
Operating Segments and Related Information - (Continued)



Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area - (Continued)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Long-lived assets by significant geographic locations are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Major Customers



Revenue derived from major customers is as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 19.Business Acquisitions and Divestitures



Business Acquisitions



On March 26, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of a privately held technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash.
During the third quarter of 2018, the Company finalized the purchase price allocation and recorded $2.2 million of identified intangible assets and goodwill of $4.7 million in the Commercial business unit.
On April 3, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of a privately held startup technology company for approximately $7.1 million in cash.
The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes.
The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the year ended December 31, 2018.
Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Commercial business unit.
The unallocated purchase price of approximately $7.1 million has been preliminarily reported in other assets as of September 30, 2018.
19



FLIR SYSTEMS, INC.



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS—(Continued)



(Unaudited)



Note 19.Business Acquisitions and Divestitures - (Continued)



Business Acquisitions - (Continued)



On September 10, 2018, the Company completed a transaction to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of a privately held software developer for automotive roadway and intersection data generation and analysis.
The allocation of the purchase price to identified intangible assets and goodwill is subject to the final determination of the valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to the valuation of intangible assets and related taxes.
The final allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed will be completed when the final assessments of the intangible assets and related taxes are completed during the first half of 2019.
Goodwill and intangibles will be recorded in the Commercial business unit.
The preliminary unallocated purchase price of approximately $10.3 million, including an estimate for contingent consideration pursuant to the stock purchase agreement, has been reported in other assets as of September 30, 2018.
In addition, during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company made a number of minority interest and other investments in privately held technology companies totaling approximately $15.5 million.
Divestitures of the Consumer and Small and Medium-Sized Security Businesses



 On February 6, 2018 the Company sold the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses within the Commercial segment for total cash consideration of approximately $28.8 million.
As a result of this combined sale, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of $10.2 million in the first quarter of 2018.
This group of assets was previously classified as held for sale during the fourth quarter of 2017, when the Company recorded an estimated pre-tax loss on net assets held for sale of $23.6 million.
This disposal does not qualify as discontinued operations and therefore, its operating results are included in the Company’s continuing operations for all periods presented through the date of the sale.
The carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities that were expected to be included in the sale were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2017 as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 20.Subsequent Events



On October 17, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share on its common stock, payable on December 7, 2018, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on November 23, 2018.
The total cash payment of this dividend will be approximately $22.1 million.
On October 23, 2018 one of the Company's wholly-owned international subsidiaries received a favorable decision from the Belgian government canceling $33.0 million of previously assessed income taxes.
20



ITEM 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of its business.
See Note 16, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.
ITEM 1A.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, approximately 26 percent, 25 percent and 21 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
In addition, at its discretion, the United States government may change its spending priorities and/or terminate, reduce or modify contracts.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
As a United States government supplier, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations



Government contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and are subject to routine and non-routine audits and investigations by United States government agencies.
In addition, violations of these regulations or other unrelated laws and statutes can lead to debarment and other penalties.
If we fail to comply with procurement rules and regulations and other laws and statutes, the results could include: reductions in the value of contracts; contract modifications or termination; the assessment of penalties and fines; and/or suspension or debarment from United States government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time or permanently.
An adverse action by the United States government could also result in lost sales to non-governmental customers who might disqualify us as a result of such adverse action.
Some expenses, such as those related to research and development activities, would likely be maintained in the event of a sales downturn in order to maintain and enhance our long-term competitiveness.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.
Most of these intangibles are the result of acquisitions in which the purchase price exceeded the value of the tangible assets acquired.
Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.
In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter.
We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable.
However, our actual costs may differ materially from these estimates.
For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, international sales accounted for 47 percent, 46 percent and 47 percent, respectively, of our total revenue.
We also manufacture certain products and subassemblies in Europe and we have several contract manufacturing agreements with third parties in Europe and in Asia.
Certain of these products, particularly our thermal and infrared products, are subject to substantial government regulation and licensing and end use restrictions throughout the world.
Our international business activities are subject to a number of risks, including:



•the imposition of and changes to governmental licensing restrictions and controls impacting our technology and products;



•restrictions and prohibitions on the export of technology and products, including recent changes in regulation prohibiting the sale of certain of our products to certain end users without a license;



•international trade restrictions;



•difficulty in collecting receivables and governmental restrictions with respect to currency;



•inadequate protection of intellectual property;



•labor union activities;



•changes in tariffs and taxes;



•restrictions on repatriation of earnings;



•restriction on the importation and exportation of goods and services;



•risks, costs, impacts and obligations associated with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws applicable to us, and laws applicable to global trade and United States exports and 



31



costs and penalties from violations of such laws and related regulations, including the costs associated with required remedial and other increased compliance activity;



•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and



•political and economic instability.
Some of these factors recently have had an adverse impact on our sales and operations and increased our cost of doing business and subjected the business to additional rules, policies and procedures that impacted the operation of the Company.
These regulations include import and export laws, anti-competition laws, anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K.
Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, tax laws, and accounting, internal control and disclosure requirements.
For example, on April 8, 2015, the Company and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered into an agreement through entry of an Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (the “SEC Order”).
The SEC Order settled charges under the FCPA with respect to incidents of improper travel and gifts involving FLIR’s Middle East operation.
In certain foreign jurisdictions, there is a higher risk of fraud or corruption and greater difficulty in maintaining effective internal controls and compliance programs.
Further, although we have implemented and continue to implement policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies or applicable laws and regulations.
On October 22, 2014, we initially contacted the United States Department of State Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance (“DDTC”), pursuant to International Traffic in Arms Regulation (“ITAR”) § 127.12(c), regarding the unauthorized export of technical data and defense services to dual and third country nationals in at least four of our facilities.
On April 27, 2015, we submitted our initial report to DDTC regarding the details of the issues raised in the October 22, 2014, submission.
DDTC subsequently notified us that it was considering administrative proceedings under Part 128 of ITAR and requested a tolling agreement, which we executed on June 16, 2015 and referenced certain Company disclosures in addition to the submissions made in conjunction with the October 24, 2014 initial notification.
On June 6, 2016, we executed a subsequent tolling agreement extending the tolling period for matters to be potentially included in an administrative proceeding for an additional 18 months and at the request of DDTC on December 1, 2017, further extended the tolling agreement for an additional six months through May 9, 2018.
On April 24, 2018, we entered into a Consent Agreement with the DDTC to resolve issues related to certain export compliance matters under the ITAR.
The Consent Agreement has a four-year term and provides for: (i) a civil penalty of $30 million with $15 million of this amount suspended on the condition that the funds have or will be used for Department-approved Consent Agreement remedial compliance measures, (ii) the appointment of an external Special Compliance Official to oversee compliance with the Consent Agreement and the ITAR; (iii) two external audits of the Company’s ITAR compliance program; and (iv) continued implementation of ongoing remedial compliance measures and additional remedial compliance measures related to automated systems and ITAR compliance policies, procedures, and training.
We expect recent and future investments in remedial compliance measures will be sufficient to cover the $15 million suspension amount.
Our failure to comply with these regulations, including the requirements of the Consent Agreement could result in penalties, loss, or suspension of contracts or other consequences which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.
In addition, our international contracts may include industrial cooperation agreements requiring specific in-country purchases, investments, manufacturing agreements or other financial obligations, known as offset obligations, and may provide for penalties if we fail to meet such requirements.
32



We face risks from currency fluctuations



Historically, currency fluctuations have affected our operating results.
We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct operations abroad and the United States government may prevent proposed sales to foreign governments and customers



Export licenses and other authorizations are required from United States government agencies under the ITAR, the Export Administration Regulation (“EAR”), the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) Regulations, the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (“IEEPA”), the Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (“AECA”), and other similar laws and regulations for the sale, use and export of many of our products and related data and services.
Thermal and infrared products and technical data have been subject to the ITAR and EAR, historically under United States Munitions List (“USML”) Category XII and Commerce Control List (“CCL”) Category 6.
Recently, the United States Government’s export reform effort resulted in the transition of various Company products from the USML to the CCL, shifting the licensing requirements and restrictions for products regulated by the Department of Commerce under the EAR.
This transition has increased the licensing requirements and restrictions on some products and reduced the requirements and restrictions on others.
We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses from the United States Department of State or Department of Commerce required to conduct our business as presently or historically conducted.
The United States export licensing environment has been affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to, the aftermath of 9/11, the rise of terrorism and the changing geopolitical environment, heightened tensions with other countries (which shift and evolve over time), and the United States reliance on the tactical advantage of the night-time war fighter.
Some of these factors have affected the thermal imaging and infrared technology industry overall while others have impacted us directly.
In addition, our 2014 submission to the United States DDTC pursuant to ITAR § 127.12(c), regarding the unauthorized export of technical data and defense services to dual and third country nationals in at least four of our facilities, have led to heightened scrutiny of export licenses for products in our markets and in some cases, has resulted in lengthened drafting and review periods for our license applications, including in countries where we have historically made significant sales.
Subsequent engagement with the DDTC as part of our 2014 submission, the Consent Agreement and related submissions and other communications concerning our licensing posture overall, highlight DDTC’s focus on the manner in which we handle exports of our products, technical data and services subject to the ITAR.
In addition, concerns with respect to potential diversion of certain of our products to prohibited end users and countries subject to economic and other sanctions implemented by the United States government has caused the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security to recently restrict our ability to sell 9hz thermal products without a license to customers in China not identified on a list maintained by the United States Department of Commerce.
Although we have taken actions and continue to take additional actions necessary to implement policies and procedures to promote an improved compliance culture and programs, there is no guarantee that our actions will be effective or that government agencies will not view our actions and programs with heightened scrutiny, including as a result of events outside of our control.
We can give no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining necessary licenses required to facilitate our international business.
Seasonal fluctuations in our operating results are an outcome of:



•the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States government and certain foreign governments;



•the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations; and



•the tendency of commercial enterprises to utilize fully annual capital budgets prior to expiration.
The speed with which companies can identify new applications for thermal imaging, develop products to meet those needs and supply commercial quantities at low prices to the market are important competitive factors.
We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are product performance, price, customer service and training, product reputation, and effective marketing and sales efforts.
Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research and development, and marketing resources than we do.
All of these factors, as well as the potential for increased competition from new market entrants, require us to continue to invest in, and focus on, research and development and new product innovation.
Our products may suffer from defects or errors leading to substantial product liability, damage or warranty claims



We include complex system designs and components in our products that may contain errors or defects, particularly when we incorporate new technology into our products or release new versions.
Such an event could result in significant expenses including expenses arising from product liability and warranty claims.
As we expand our presence into new markets, we may face increased exposure to product liability claims.
Amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenues or translate into profits



Many contracts are subject to cancellation or suspension on short notice at the discretion of the customer, and the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contract.
Accordingly, there is no assurance that backlog will actually be realized.
Many of our proprietary rights are held in confidence as trade secrets and are not covered by patents, making them more difficult to protect.
In addition, we cannot be certain that our new products and technologies will be successful or that customers will accept any of our new products.
Our business could be negatively impacted by cybersecurity threats and other security threats and technology disruptions



We face certain security threats and technology disruptions, including threats to our information technology infrastructure, attempts to gain access to our or our customers’ proprietary or classified information, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, threats of terrorism events, and failures of our technology tools and systems.
We are subject to laws and rules issued by various agencies concerning safeguarding and maintaining infrastructure and physical security and information confidentiality.
Our information technology networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to successfully perform day-to-day operations.
We are also involved with information technology systems for certain customers and other third parties, for which we face similar security threats as for our own.
In particular, cybersecurity threats-which include, but are not limited to, computer viruses, spyware and malware, attempts to access information, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches-are persistent and evolve quickly.
Such threats have increased in frequency, scope and potential impact 



35



in recent years.
Further, a variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support our critical functions.
While we believe that we have implemented appropriate measures and controls, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential information or corruption of data.
We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology systems.
We use encryption and authentication technologies designed to secure the transmission and storage of data and prevent access to our data or accounts.
These security measures are subject to third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities.
For example, third parties may attempt to induce by fraud employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems.
These security systems cannot provide absolute security.
Significant competition exists for such personnel and we cannot assure the retention of our key executives, technical and sales personnel or our ability to attract, integrate and retain other such personnel that may be required in the future.
We cannot assure that employees will not leave and subsequently compete against us.
We must successfully manage a complex global organization



As we have grown, the size and scope of our worldwide operations have also increased substantially.
The integration of businesses, personnel, product lines and technologies can be difficult, time consuming and subject to significant risks.
Such acquisitions may vary in size and complexity.
Any future acquisitions are subject to the risks described above.
Furthermore, we might assume or incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions.
We have indebtedness as a result of the issuance of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and borrowings against our unsecured credit facility, and we are subject to certain restrictive covenants under our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the Notes which may limit our operational and financial flexibility



Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and comply with the financial covenants under our credit facility will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control.
Our inability to meet our debt service obligations or comply with the required covenants could result in a default under the credit facility or indenture.
In the event of any such default, under the credit facility, the lenders thereunder could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees under the facility to be due and immediately payable.
In the event of any such default under our indenture, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes could declare the principal amount of all of the Notes to be due and payable immediately.
In addition, prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing could increase our interest expense.
A refinancing of our indebtedness, including the Notes, could also require us to comply with more onerous covenants and further restrict our business operations.
We are effectively self-insured against many potential liabilities



Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to a broad range of risks, including automobile liability, general liability, workers’ compensation and employee group health, these policies do not cover all possible claims and certain of the policies are subject to large deductibles.
Accordingly, we are effectively self-insured for a substantial number of actual and potential claims.
In addition, if any of our insurance carriers defaulted on its obligations to provide insurance coverage by reason of its insolvency or for other reasons, our exposure to claims would increase and our profits would be adversely affected.
Our estimates for unpaid claims and expenses are based on known facts, historical trends and industry averages, utilizing the assistance of actuarial services.
The determination of such estimated liabilities and their appropriateness are reviewed and updated at least quarterly.
In such case, adjustments to our balance sheet may be required and these increased liabilities would be recorded in the period that the experience becomes known.
Insurance carriers may be unwilling, in the future, to provide our current levels of coverage without a significant increase in insurance premiums and/or collateral requirements to 



37



cover our obligations to them.
Increased collateral requirements may be in the form of additional letters of credit and/or cash, and an increase in collateral requirements could significantly reduce our liquidity.
For example, in 2016, in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 740, "Income Taxes," we recorded discrete tax charges totaling $39.6 million related to the January 11, 2016 announcement from the European Commission of a decision concluding that certain rules under Belgian tax legislation were deemed to be incompatible with European Union regulations on state aid.
As a result of this decision, the European Commission directed the Belgian Government to recover past taxes from certain entities, reflective of disallowed state aid, which impacts one of our international subsidiaries.
The Belgian Government announced they have appealed this decision and filed action for an annulment in the General Court of the European Union, and in July 2016 we filed a separate appeal with the General Court of the European Union.
On January 10, 2017, we received tax assessments from the Belgium government approximating the discrete tax charge recorded during 2016, which we have classified as current taxes payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2018.
We filed a complaint against the Belgian tax assessments, and on October 23, 2018 the Belgian government canceled $33.0 million of the tax assessments.
As a result, we expect to reverse a similar amount of previously accrued income tax plus interest associated with the assessments during the period ending December 31, 2018.
As well, we expect the euro equivalent of $35.7 million held in a restricted cash account as of September 30, 2018 to become unrestricted during the period ending December 31, 2018.
The appeal with the General Court of the European Union or other future events may cause the remaining income tax provision associated with the European Commission decision to be entirely or partially reversed.
Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods.
For example, during the quarter ending September 30, 2018, the Swedish Tax Authority (“STA”) issued a proposed tax assessment for the tax year ending December 31, 2012 to one of the Company's non-operating subsidiaries in Sweden.
The proposed assessment concerns the use of tax credits applied against capital gains pursuant to European Union Council Directive 2009/133/EC, commonly referred to as the EU Merger Directive, and indicates a suggested decision to assess taxes and penalties totaling approximately $300 million (Swedish kroner 2.8 billion).
We believe the STA’s assertions in the proposed assessment are not in accordance with Swedish tax regulations and plan to defend our positions with the STA and through the Swedish court system, as necessary.
Consequently, no adjustment to our unrecognized tax benefits has been recorded in relation to this matter.
The Tax Act, among other things, (i) permanently reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% beginning in 2018, (ii) provides for a five year period of 100% bonus depreciation followed by a phase-down of the bonus depreciation percentage, and (iii) provides for more general changes to the taxation of corporations, including changes to the deductibility of interest expense, the adoption of a modified territorial tax system, assessing a repatriation tax or “toll-charge” on undistributed earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign corporations, and introducing certain anti-base erosion provisions.
The long-term impact of the Tax Act on the general economy cannot be reliably predicted at this time and will require rule-making and interpretation in a number of areas.
As such, the application of certain accounting guidance is currently evolving.
39
