Item 2.
This report has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or the “Commission”) in Washington, D.C. and can be obtained by contacting the SEC’s public reference operations or obtaining it through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statement concerning the Company.
The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology.
The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors and some also maintain relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).
As such, the segments are managed separately.
20 



Results of Operations 



The following table sets forth the Company’s results of operations as a percent of net sales during the periods shown (the table may not foot due to rounding): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The segment table located in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements sets forth the Company’s results of operations (in thousands) including net sales, gross profit, and operating income for each of the Company’s five segments during the periods shown.
For each line item in the table, the total of the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto, and aviation segments’ amounts equals the amount in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 1.
As indicated in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined in the first quarter of 2019.
The amounts presented below for the 13-weeks and 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported.
21 



Comparison of 13-Weeks ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018  



(Amounts included in the following discussion are stated in thousands unless otherwise indicated) 



Net Sales 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net sales increased 15% for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 24%, contributing 85% of total revenue.
Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 28% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 26% in the third quarter of 2018.
Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 23%, 28%, 9%, and 28%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches.
The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
The auto segment gross margin increase of 490 basis points was primarily attributable to lower license expense.
A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year.
Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor and marine segments.
The fitness and aviation segment gross margin decreases were primarily attributable to product mix.
22 



Advertising Expense 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter.
The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions.
The fitness segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to greater leverage of operating costs.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2018 would have been approximately $4 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $2 million less for the marine segment, approximately $2 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and Development Expense 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



23 



Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating Income 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter.
In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
Other Income (Expense)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The average return on cash and investments, including interest and capital gains/losses, during the third quarter of 2019 was 2.0% compared to 1.8% during the same quarter of 2018.
Interest income increased primarily due to slightly higher yields on fixed-income securities.
Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds.
The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity.
Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements.
The $16.3 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar, within the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.8% against the Euro and 3.2% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $9.8 million and $1.5 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.3% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $1.2 million.
The remaining net currency loss of $6.2 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The $6.9 million currency loss recognized in the third quarter of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling within the 13-weeks ended September 29, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 0.7% against the Euro and 1.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $2.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar remained relatively flat against the Taiwan Dollar.
The remaining net currency loss of $3.6 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
24 



Income Tax Provision  



The Company recorded income tax expense of $29.9 million in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018.
The effective tax rate was 11.6% in the third quarter of 2019, compared to 8.5% in the third quarter of 2018.
The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018.
As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019.
Net Income  



As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended September 28, 2019 was $227.9 million compared to $184.2 million for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2018, an increase of $43.7 million.
Comparison of 39-Weeks Ended September 28, 2019 and 39-Weeks Ended September 29, 2018 



Net Sales 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net sales increased 10% for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period.
The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 84% of total revenue.
Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the first three quarters of 2019 compared to 24% in the first three quarters of 2018.
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 12%, 16%, 13%, and 22%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period.
The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in adventure watches, golf and inReach product lines.
Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx.
Marine segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters and sonar products.
The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories.
Auto segment revenue decreased 13% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction.
25 



Gross Profit 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit dollars in the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 increased 11% while gross margin remained relatively flat compared to the year-ago period.
A portion of license expense favorability in the auto segment is expected to continue for the remainder of the year.
Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor, marine, and aviation segments.
Increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor segment was partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments.
Selling, General and Administrative Expense 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx.
As noted above and in Note 4 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses in the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year.
The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported.
For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the first three quarters of 2018 would have been approximately $13 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $10 million less for the marine segment, approximately $3 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
26 



Considering the refined allocation methodology noted above, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments.
Research and Development Expense 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago period and increased 5% in absolute dollars.
Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.
Operating Income 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Operating income increased 20% in absolute dollars and increased 220 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period.
The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above.
Other Income (Expense)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The average returns on cash and investments, including interest and capital gains/losses, during the 39-weeks ended September 28, 2019 and the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018 were 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively.
Interest income increased primarily due to slightly higher yields on fixed-income securities.
27 



The $12.6 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2019 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 28, 2019.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 1.5% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $8.6 million.
This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 4.4% against the Euro and 3.3% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $13.9 million and $0.9 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $6.4 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The $3.4 million currency loss recognized in the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against most other currencies, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar within the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018.
During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $13.6 million.
This was more than offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.2% against the Euro and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $7.7 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and additional net currency losses of $8.7 million related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial.
The effective tax rate was 15.4% in the first three quarters of 2019, compared to 14.8% in the first three quarters of 2018.
As discussed in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Switzerland corporate tax reform was approved by public referendum in May 2019 and enacted in October 2019.
Net Income 



As a result of the above, net income for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 was $591.7 million compared to $503.9 million for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018, an increase of $87.8 million.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



As of September 28, 2019, we had approximately $2.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions.
We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements.
It is management’s goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Company’s Board of Directors.
The investment policy’s primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk.
Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the first three quarters of 2019 and 2018 were approximately 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively.
See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities.
Operating Activities 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The $237.6 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the increase in cash used in working capital of $310.6 million (which included a decrease of $98.0 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a net increase of $126.7 million in cash paid for inventory associated primarily with the Company’s effort to increase days of supply to support our increasingly diversified product lines, and a net increase of $85.9 million in cash used in other activities primarily driven by payments associated with an amendment to a license agreement) and income taxes payable of $34.5 million.
These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income and other non-cash adjustments of $107.5 million.
28 



Investing Activities  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The $129.0 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to increased cash payments for acquisitions of $246.1 million, partially offset by decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $85.6 million and cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $30.4 million.
Financing Activities 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The $20.4 million increase in cash used in financing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to an increase in dividend payments of $12.8 million and $7.6 million increase in treasury stock net purchases related to equity awards.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
There were no material changes to the Company’s critical accounting policies and estimates in the 13-week and 39-week periods ended September 28, 2019, other than those discussed in Note 1, “Accounting Policies”.
29
