Item 2.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations



This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is organized as follows:



•Overview.
A discussion of our business and other highlights affecting the company to provide context for the remainder of this MD&A.
•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•Liquidity and Capital Resources.
An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
•Contractual and Other Obligations.
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
OVERVIEW



We are a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions, and services.
We sell to individual consumers, SMBs and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health, and education sectors.
We have three segments for financial reporting purposes: Personal Systems, Printing and Corporate Investments.
The Personal Systems segment offers Commercial and Consumer desktop and notebook PCs, workstations, thin clients, Commercial mobility devices, retail point-of-sale systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support, and services for the commercial and consumer markets.
The Printing segment provides Consumer and Commercial printer hardware, Supplies, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices.
Corporate Investments include HP Labs and certain business incubation projects.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium form factors such as convertible notebooks and detachable notebooks, in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
The beginning of a market shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Device as a Service.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
Business printing includes delivering solutions to SMBs and enterprise customers, such as multi-function and PageWide printers, including our JetIntelligence lineup of LaserJet printers.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings.
We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.
A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape.
Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
•In Printing, we are seeing signs of stabilization of demand in consumer and commercial markets, but are still experiencing an overall competitive pricing environment.
For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon.
We are also seeing increases in commodity costs impacting our bill of materials.
To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners.
In addition, we need to continue to improve our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes and efficiencies.
We also need to continue to optimize our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



The MD&A is based on our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion and for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax expense of $379 million, which are considered provisional estimates under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.
118.
44

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



In December 2017, the SEC staff issued SAB No.
118, which addresses how a company recognizes provisional estimates when a company does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the effect of the changes in the TCJA.
The measurement period ends when a company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting, but cannot extend beyond one year.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to the $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by a $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and a $1.2 billion net expense for the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate and for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to realization on U.S. deferred taxes that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount.
Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we expect to indefinitely invest outside the United States and the amounts we expect to distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on amounts expected to be distributed to the United States.
The effects of the TCJA related to these policies are referenced and discussed in detail in Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we supplement the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue with the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a constant currency basis, which excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange fluctuations calculated by translating current period revenues using monthly average exchange rates from the comparative period and hedging activities from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The constant currency measures are provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a GAAP basis.
Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes.
45

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Revenue



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, total net revenue increased 11.7% (increased 8.8% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
U.S. net revenue increased 5.1% to $5.4 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 15.9% to $9.2 billion.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2018, total net revenue increased 13.1% (increased 10.5% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
U.S. net revenue increased 6.4% to $15.0 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 16.9% to $28.1 billion.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment net revenue is included in “Segment Information” below.
Gross Margin



For the three months ended July 31, 2018, our gross margin decreased by 0.2 percentage points as compared to the prior-year period.
For the nine months ended July 31, 2018, our gross margin remained flat, as compared to the prior-year period.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment gross margins is included under “Segment Information” below.
Operating Expenses



Research and Development



Research and development (“R&D”) expense increased 20.1% and 16.8% for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily due to continuing investment in Printing, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Selling, General and Administrative



Selling, general and administrative expense increased 11.9% and 14.1% for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily driven by incremental go-to-market investments to support revenue growth, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Restructuring and Other Charges



Restructuring and other charges for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 relate primarily to the Fiscal 2017 Plan and certain non-recurring costs, including those as a result of the Separation.
The amounts for the three and nine months 



46

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



ended July 31, 2018 include an adjustment to the carrying amount of certain held for sale assets of $29 million associated with the consolidation of manufacturing into global hubs.
Acquisition-related charges



Acquisition-related charges for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 relate primarily to third-party professional and legal fees, and integration-related costs, as well as fair value adjustments of certain acquired assets such as inventory.
Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018 relate to intangible assets resulting primarily from the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Interest and Other, Net



Interest and other, net expense increased by $6 million and $810 million for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods.
The increase for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 is primarily due to reversal of indemnification receivables from Hewlett Packard Enterprise pertaining to various audit settlements, and loss on extinguishment of debt.
Therefore, a blended rate of 23% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year.
Our effective tax rate was 13.6% and 22.5% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively and (93.2%) and 23.1% for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, we recorded $7.0 million and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
As discussed in the Note 6 “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, we have not yet completed our analysis of the full impact of TCJA.
However, for the three months January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
For the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred taxes that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
For the three months ended July 31, 2018, we recorded net tax benefits of $12 million related to acquisition costs offset by other charges of $5 million.
The nine months ended July 31, 2018 also included tax benefits related to audit settlements of $1.5 billion, loss on debt extinguishment of $33 million, acquisition costs of $13 million and other tax benefits of $10 million.
These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $56 million.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, we recorded excess tax benefits of $2 million and $36 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.
During the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, we recorded $27 million and $31 million, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes for continuing operations.
These amounts included a tax benefit of $14 million and $45 million related to restructuring and other charges, and a tax benefit of $15 million and $28 million related to acquisition-related charges, offset by uncertain tax position charges of $19 million and $25 million, for the three and nine months ended July 31, 2017, respectively.
The three and nine months ended July 31, 2017 also included a tax benefit of $12 million related to provision to return adjustments due to the filing of it’s U.S. Federal tax return.
The nine months ended July 31, 2017 also included a tax charge of $26 million related to state provision to return adjustments.
Segment Information



A description of the products and services for each segment can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the segments disclosed.
Realignment



 Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
The organizational change 



47

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



resulted in the transfer of long-life consumables from Commercial to Supplies within the Printing segment.
Certain revenues related to service arrangements, which are being eliminated for the purposes of reporting HP’s consolidated net revenue, have 



now been reclassified from Other to segments.
HP has reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
The reporting change had no impact on previously reported consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share.
Personal Systems



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of net revenue and the weighted net revenue change by business unit were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three months ended July 31, 2018 compared with three months ended July 31, 2017



Personal Systems net revenue increased 12.0% (increased 8.6% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks, Desktops and favorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 6.3% and 5.4% increase in unit volume and ASPs, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in unit volume was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops.
The increase in ASPs was due to favorable foreign currency impacts and positive mix shifts.
Consumer revenue increased 10.2% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs.
Commercial revenue increased 12.9% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Net revenue increased 11.8% in Desktops, 12.5% in Notebooks and 10.9% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin partially offset by an increase in operating expenses.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher ASPs, partially offset by an increase in logistics and commodity costs.
The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to increased investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Nine months ended July 31, 2018 compared with nine months ended July 31, 2017



Personal Systems net revenue increased 13.8% (increased 10.8% on a constant currency basis) for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops and favorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 6.8% and 6.5% increase in unit volume and ASPs, respectively, as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in unit volume was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops.
Consumer revenue increased 11.2% for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs.
Commercial revenue increased 15.1% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
48

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



Net revenue increased 14.7% in Desktops, 13.8% in Notebooks and 10.1% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.1 percentage points for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin, driven by higher ASPs partially offset by an increase in logistics and commodity costs.
Printing



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of net revenue and the weighted net revenue change by business unit were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three months ended July 31, 2018 compared with three months ended July 31, 2017



Printing net revenue increased 10.9% (increased 9.0% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies increased 8.3% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Printer unit volume increased 12.1% while ASPs was flat as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Commercial Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers.
Printer ASPs remained flat due to favorable foreign currency offset by dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 24.5% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers.
The unit volume in Commercial Hardware increased primarily due to Samsung-branded printers.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 3.5% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 2.1% increase in printer unit volume, and nominal increase in ASPs.
The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the LaserJet and InkJet Home business.
The ASPs increase was primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by mix shift to low-end printers.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 1.3 percentage points for the three months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a decline in overall gross margin and an increase in operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Nine months ended July 31, 2018 compared with nine months ended July 31, 2017



49

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



 Printing net revenue increased 11.8% (increased 10.0% on a constant currency basis) for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies increased by 8.8% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Printer unit volume increased 13.2% while ASPs increased 2.5% as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Commercial and Consumer Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers.
Printer ASPs increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased 26.2% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers.
The unit volume in Commercial Hardware increased primarily due to Samsung-branded printers.
The ASP decrease in Commercial Hardware was primarily due to the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 5.8% as compared to the prior-year period due to a 4.2% increase in printer unit volume and a 1.9% increase in ASPs.
The unit volume increase was primarily driven by InkJet and LaserJet Home business.
The ASP increase was primarily driven by favorable foreign currency impacts.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 1.0 percentage points for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period primarily due to an increase in operating expenses.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Corporate Investments



The loss from operations in Corporate Investments for the three months and nine months ended July 31, 2018 was primarily due to expenses associated with our incubation projects.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity.
We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions.
We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed.
On August 1, 2018, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Apogee Corporation, a U.K. based office equipment dealer (“OED”) and provider of print, outsourced services, and document and process technology for approximately £380M.
The transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar year 2018, pending regulatory review and other customary closing conditions.
Amounts held outside of the United States are generally utilized to support non-U.S. liquidity needs, and may from time to time be distributed to the United States.
The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning 2019.
As we evaluate the impact of the TCJA and the future cash needs of our operations, we may revise the amount of foreign earnings considered to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including reducing our gross debt level, returning capital to shareholders with a focus on incremental share repurchase or other uses.
50

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



Liquidity



Our key cash flow metrics were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $0.6 billion for the nine months ended July 31, 2018, primarily driven by higher earnings from operations.
Working Capital Metrics



Management utilizes current cash conversion cycle information to manage HP’s working capital levels.
Our working capital metrics and cash conversion cycle impacts were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



July 31, 2018 as compared to July 31, 2017



The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO.
DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding.
DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue.
The decrease in DSO was primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts.
DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of revenue.
The increase in DOS was primarily due to leveraging our balance sheet, particularly through strategic inventory investments, in transit and sea shipments.
DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding.
DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of revenue.
The DPO remained flat as of July 31, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
Investing Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash used in investing activities decreased by $0.9 billion for the nine months ended July 31, 2018, primarily due to a decrease in investments classified as available-for-sale investments within Other current assets by $1.2 billion and collateral related to our derivatives of $0.7 billion, partially offset by the payment of $1.0 billion for the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Financing Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash used in financing activities increased by $3.0 billion for the nine months ended July 31, 2018, primarily due to the payment for the repurchase of debt of $2.0 billion and a higher share repurchase settlement amount of $1.0 billion.
Capital Resources



51

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



Debt Levels



We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital and targeted capital structure.
Outstanding borrowings decreased to $7.2 billion as of July 31, 2018 as compared to $7.8 billion as of October 31, 2017, bearing weighted-average interest rates of 4.0% for July 31, 2018 and October 31, 2017, primarily due to the payment for the repurchase of approximately $1.85 billion in aggregate principal amount of U.S. Dollar Global Notes, partially offset by issuance of commercial paper of $1.2 billion.
Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps.
For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
As of July 31, 2018, we maintain a senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility with aggregate lending commitments of $4.0 billion, which will be available until March 30, 2023 and is primarily to support the issuance of commercial paper.
Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes.
As of July 31, 2018, we had $2.1 billion of commercial paper outstanding.
We increased our issuance authorization under our commercial paper program from $4.0 billion to $6.0 billion in November 2017.
In December 2017, we also entered into an additional revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provided us with $1.5 billion of available borrowings until November 30, 2018.
We elected to terminate this $1.5 billion revolving credit facility early, effective August 17, 2018.
Available Borrowing Resources



We had the following resources available to obtain short or long-term financing in addition to the commercial paper and revolving credit facilities discussed above:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For more information on our borrowings, see Note 10, “Borrowings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Credit Ratings



Our credit risk is evaluated by major independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them.
We can access alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities, if necessary, to offset potential reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper.
CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS



Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan Contributions



As of July 31, 2018, we anticipate making contributions for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 of approximately $12 million to our non-U.S. pension plans, $8 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified pension plan participants and $4 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans.
Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities.
For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
For more information on our restructuring activities that are part of our cost improvements, see Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Charges”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities.
We expect the actual cash payments for the tax to be much lower as we expect to reduce the overall liability by more than half once existing and future credits and other balance sheet attributes are used.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS



As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
We have third-party short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers.
For more information on our third-party short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, “Supplementary Financial Information”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
53



Table of Contents
