PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 13, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
In order to address quality and security issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement effective solutions.
In the event of security vulnerabilities or other issues with third party components, we may have to rely on third parties to provide mitigation techniques such as firmware updates.
Furthermore, mitigation techniques for vulnerabilities in third-party components may be ineffective or may result in adverse performance, system instability and data loss or corruption.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities



There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On October 10, 2016, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $3.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions.
HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under 



52



Table of Contents  



employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
All share repurchases settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 were open market transactions.
As of January 31, 2018, HP had approximately $2.0 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Not applicable.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 52 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.
53



Table of Contents
