Item 2.
HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations



This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is organized as follows:



•Overview.
A discussion of our business and other highlights affecting the company to provide context for the remainder of this MD&A.
•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•Liquidity and Capital Resources.
An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our liquidity and financial condition.
•Contractual and Other Obligations.
An overview of contractual obligations, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan contributions, cost-saving plans, uncertain tax positions and off-balance sheet arrangements of our operations.
OVERVIEW



We are a leading global provider of personal computing and other access devices, imaging and printing products, and related technologies, solutions, and services.
We sell to individual consumers, SMBs and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health, and education sectors.
We have three segments for financial reporting purposes: Personal Systems, Printing and Corporate Investments.
The Personal Systems segment offers Commercial and Consumer desktop and notebook PCs, workstations, thin clients, Commercial mobility devices, retail point-of-sale systems, displays and other related accessories, software, support, and services for the commercial and consumer markets.
The Printing segment provides Consumer and Commercial printer hardware, Supplies, solutions and services, as well as scanning devices.
Corporate Investments include HP Labs and certain business incubation projects.
•In Personal Systems, our strategic focus is on profitable growth through hyper market segmentation with respect to enhanced innovation in multi-operating systems, multi-architecture, geography, customer segments and other key attributes.
Additionally, we are investing in premium and mobility form factors such as convertible notebooks, detachable notebooks, and mobility devices in order to meet customer preference for mobile, thinner and lighter devices.
The beginning of a market shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Device as a Service.
We believe that we are well positioned due to our competitive product lineup.
•In Printing, our strategic focus is on business printing, a shift to contractual solutions and Graphics, as well as expanding our footprint in the 3D printing marketplace.
Business printing includes delivering solutions to SMBs and enterprise customers, such as multi-function and PageWide printers, including our JetIntelligence lineup of LaserJet printers.
The shift to contractual solutions includes an increased focus on Managed Print Services and Instant Ink, which presents strong after-market supplies opportunities.
In the Graphics space, we are focused on innovations such as our Indigo and Latex product offerings.
We plan to continue to focus on shifting the mix in the installed base to higher value units and expanding our innovative Ink, Laser, Graphics and 3D printing programs.
We continue to execute on our key initiatives of focusing on high-value products targeted at high usage categories and introducing new revenue delivery models.
Our focus is on placing higher value printer units which offer strong annuity of toner and ink, the design and deployment of A3 products and solutions, accelerating growth in Graphic solutions and 3D printing.
One set of challenges relates to dynamic market trends, such as flat PC device and home printing markets.
43

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



A second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape.
Our primary competitors are exerting competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others.
A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution.
•In Printing, we are seeing signs of stabilization of demand in consumer and commercial markets, but are still experiencing an overall competitive pricing environment.
For instance, we source the majority of our A4 and a portion of our A3 portfolio of laser printer engines and laser toner cartridges from Canon.
We are also seeing increases in commodity costs, such as oil prices, impacting our bill of materials.
To address these challenges, we continue to pursue innovation with a view towards developing new products and services aligned with generating market demand and meeting the needs of our customers and partners.
In addition, we need to continue to improve our operations, with a particular focus on enhancing our end-to-end processes and efficiencies.
We also need to continue to optimize our sales coverage models, align our sales incentives with our strategic goals, improve channel execution, strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, and develop and capitalize on market opportunities.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



The MD&A is based on our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized at a lower rate, which are considered provisional estimates under the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No.
118.
44

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



In December 2017, the SEC staff issued SAB No.
118, which addresses how a company recognizes provisional estimates when a company does not have the necessary information available, prepared or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete its accounting for the effect of the changes in the TCJA.
The measurement period ends when a company has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting, but cannot extend beyond one year.
The final impact of the TCJA may differ from the provisional estimates due to changes in interpretations of the TCJA, legislative action to address questions that arise because of the TCJA, changes in accounting standard for income taxes and related interpretations in response to the TCJA, and updates or changes to estimates used in the provisional amounts.
For the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to the $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by a $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and a $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to realization on U.S. deferred taxes that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount we expect to indefinitely invest outside the United States and the amounts we expect to distribute to the United States and provide the U.S. federal taxes due on amounts expected to be distributed to the United States.
The effects of the TCJA related to these policies are referenced and discussed in detail in Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements see Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we supplement the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue with the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a constant currency basis, which excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange fluctuations calculated by translating current period revenues using monthly average exchange rates from the comparative period and hedging activities from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The constant currency measures are provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in net revenue on a GAAP basis.
Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes.
45

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Revenue



For the three months ended April 30, 2018, total net revenue increased 13.1% (increased 9.9% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
U.S. net revenue increased 5.0% to $4.7 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 17.6% to $9.3 billion.
For the six months ended April 30, 2018, total net revenue increased 13.8% (increased 11.4% on a constant currency basis) as compared to the prior-year period.
U.S. net revenue increased 7.2% to $9.7 billion, while net revenue from international operations increased 17.5% to $18.8 billion.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment net revenue is included in “Segment Information” below.
Gross Margin



For the three months ended April 30, 2018, our gross margin increased 0.1 percentage points as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase was primarily driven by an improved rate in Personal Systems due to higher average selling prices (“ASPs”), partially offset by higher commodity costs in Personal Systems and higher Commercial Hardware unit placements in Printing.
For the six months ended April 30, 2018, our gross margin remained flat, as compared to the prior-year period.
A detailed discussion of the factors contributing to the changes in segment gross margins is included under “Segment Information” below.
Operating Expenses



Research and Development



Research and development (“R&D”) expense increased 13.4% and 15.2% for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily due to continuing investment in Printing, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Selling, General and Administrative



Selling, general and administrative expense increased 15.6% and 15.3% for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and incremental go-to-market investments to support revenue growth.
Restructuring and Other Charges



Restructuring and other charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 relate primarily to the Fiscal 2017 Plan and certain non-recurring costs, including those as a result of the Separation.
Acquisition-related charges



46

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



Acquisition-related charges for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 relate primarily to third-party professional and legal fees, and integration-related costs, as well as fair value adjustments of certain acquired assets such as inventory.
Amortization of Intangible Assets



Amortization of intangible assets for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018 relate to intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Interest and Other, Net



Interest and other, net expense increased by $817 million and $804 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, as compared to the prior-year periods, primarily due to reversal of indemnification receivables from Hewlett Packard Enterprise pertaining to various audit settlements, and loss on extinguishment of debt.
Therefore, a blended rate of 23% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year.
Our effective tax rate was (1162%) and 25.9% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively and (203%) and 23.5% for the six months ended April 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded $1.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes.
As discussed in the Note 6 we have not yet completed our analysis of the full impact of TCJA.
However, for the three months ended January 31, 2018, we recorded a provisional tax benefit of $1.1 billion related to $5.5 billion net benefit for the decrease in our deferred tax liability on unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by $3.2 billion net expense for the deemed repatriation tax payable in installments over eight years and $1.2 billion net expense for remeasurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities for the revaluation of our deferred assets and liabilities to the new U.S. statutory tax rate.
In addition, for the three months ended April 30, 2018, we recorded provisional tax expense of $379 million related to remeasurement of our U.S. deferred taxes that are expected to be realized at a lower rate and a $43 million tax benefit as an adjustment to the provisional deemed repatriation tax amount due to further analysis and additional guidance.
This amount also included tax benefits related to audit settlements of $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively, and loss on extinguishment of debt of $33 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018.
These tax benefits were offset by uncertain tax position charges of $8 million and $51 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, respectively.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2018, in addition to the discrete items mentioned above, we recorded excess tax benefits of $6 million and $34 million, respectively, on stock options, restricted stock units and performance-adjusted restricted stock units.
We have agreed with all of the adjustments contained within the various final closing agreements and have redetermined our unrecognized tax positions for all open years based on the closing agreements and associated information and analysis of those agreements.
During the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, we recorded $4 million and $5 million , respectively, of net tax benefits related to discrete items in the provision for taxes for continuing operations.
These amounts included a tax benefit of $12 million and $31 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2017, respectively, related to restructuring charges.
The three months ended April 30, 2017 also included various other tax charges of $8 million.
The six months ended April 30, 2017 also included a tax charge of $26 million related to state provision to return adjustments.
Segment Information



A description of the products and services for each segment can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Future changes to this organizational structure may result in changes to the segments disclosed.
Realignment



 Effective at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018, HP implemented an organizational change to align its segment and business unit financial reporting more closely with its current business structure.
The organizational change resulted in the transfer of long-life consumables from Commercial to Supplies within the Printing segment.
Certain revenues related to service arrangements, which are being eliminated for the purposes of reporting HP’s consolidated net revenue, have 



47

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



now been reclassified from Other to segments.
HP has reflected this change to its segment and business unit information in prior reporting periods on an as-if basis.
The reporting change had no impact on previously reported consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or net earnings per share.
Personal Systems



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of net revenue and the weighted net revenue change by business unit were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three months ended April 30, 2018 compared with three months ended April 30, 2017



Personal Systems net revenue increased 14.5% (increased 10.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops and favorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 7.0% increase in both unit volume and ASPs as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in unit volume was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops.
Consumer revenue increased 10.5% for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs.
Commercial revenue increased 16.4% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Net revenue increased 15.8% in Desktops, 14.7% in Notebooks and 8.7% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.6 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in gross margin.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher ASPs partially offset by an increase in logistics and commodity costs.
Six months ended April 30, 2018 compared with six months ended April 30, 2017



Personal Systems net revenue increased 14.7% (increased 11.9% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The net revenue increase was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops and favorable foreign currency impacts.
The net revenue increase was driven by a 7.1% increase in both unit volume and ASPs as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in unit volume was primarily due to growth in Notebooks and Desktops.
Consumer revenue increased 11.7% for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks and Desktops as a result of higher unit volume combined with higher ASPs.
Commercial revenue increased 16.3% as compared to the prior-year period, driven by growth in Notebooks, Desktops and Workstations.
Net revenue increased 16.2% in Desktops, 14.5% in Notebooks and 9.6% in Workstations as compared to the prior-year period.
Personal Systems earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased by 0.2 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a decrease in operating expenses.
Gross 



48

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



margin as a percentage of net revenue was flat due to higher ASPs, offset by an increase in commodity costs.
Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to operating expense management.
Printing



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of net revenue and the weighted net revenue change by business unit were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three months ended April 30, 2018 compared with three months ended April 30, 2017



Printing net revenue increased 10.9% (increased 8.7% on a constant currency basis) for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
Net revenue for Supplies increased 7.7% as compared to the prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Printer unit volume increased 13.3% while ASPs increased 1.6% as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Commercial Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers.
Printer ASPs increased primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased by 26.7% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers.
The unit volume in Commercial Hardware increased primarily due to Samsung-branded printers.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 2.8% as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to a 3.7% increase in printer unit volume, whereas the ASPs remained roughly flat.
The unit volume increase was primarily driven by the Inkjet and LaserJet Home business.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 1.3 percentage points for the three months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to an increase in operating expenses and decline in overall gross margin.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Six months ended April 30, 2018 compared with six months ended April 30, 2017



 Printing net revenue increased 12.2% (increased 10.4% on a constant currency basis) for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in net revenue was primarily driven by increase in Supplies and Hardware revenue, and favorable foreign currency impacts.
Net revenue for Supplies increased by 9.0% as compared to the 



49

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



prior-year period, including the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Printer unit volume increased 13.8% while ASPs increased 3.8% as compared to the prior-year period.
The increase in printer unit volume was primarily driven by unit increases in Commercial and Consumer Hardware, including the Samsung-branded printers.
Printer ASPs increased primarily due to a mix shift to higher-end printers and favorable foreign currency impacts, partially offset by the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Commercial Hardware increased 27.1% as compared to the prior-year period, including revenue from Samsung-branded printers, LaserJet and PageWide printers and 3D printers.
The unit volume in Commercial Hardware increased primarily due to Samsung-branded printers.
The ASP decrease in Commercial Hardware was primarily due to the dilution impact from Samsung-branded low-end A4 products.
Net revenue for Consumer Hardware increased 6.9% as compared to the prior-year period due to a 5.3% increase in printer unit volume and a 2.3% increase in ASPs.
The unit volume increase was primarily driven by InkJet Home business.
The ASP increase was primarily driven by favorable foreign currency impacts.
Printing earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased by 0.8 percentage points for the six months ended April 30, 2018 as compared to the prior-year period primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by improved gross margin.
Operating expenses increased primarily driven by the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business and increases in investments in key growth initiatives and go-to-market.
Corporate Investments



The loss from operations in Corporate Investments for the three months and six months ended April 30, 2018 was primarily due to expenses associated with our incubation projects.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity.
We are able to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, with broad access to capital markets and credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions.
We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed.
Amounts held outside of the United States are generally utilized to support non-U.S. liquidity needs, and may from time to time be distributed to the United States.
The payments associated with this one-time transition tax will be paid over eight years beginning 2019.
As we evaluate the impact of the TCJA and the future cash needs of our operations, we may revise the amount of foreign earnings considered to be permanently reinvested in our foreign subsidiaries and how to utilize such funds, including reducing our gross debt level, returning capital to shareholders with a focus on incremental share repurchase or other uses.
Liquidity



Our key cash flow metrics were as follows:



50

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $0.8 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2018, primarily due to higher earnings from operations and an increase in other liabilities.
Working Capital Metrics



Management utilizes current cash conversion cycle information to manage HP’s working capital levels.
Our working capital metrics and cash conversion cycle impacts were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



April 30, 2018 as compared to April 30, 2017



The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO.
DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding.
DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average net revenue.
The increase in DSO was primarily due to unfavorable revenue linearity.
DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average cost of revenue.
The increase in DOS was primarily due to leveraging our balance sheet, particularly through strategic inventory investments.
DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding.
DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average cost of revenue.
The increase in DPO was primarily due to higher inventory purchasing volume and negotiated payment terms with our product suppliers.
Investing Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash used in investing activities increased by $0.9 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2018, primarily due to payment for the acquisition of Samsung’s printer business.
Financing Activities



Compared to the corresponding period in fiscal year 2017, net cash used in financing activities increased by $2.6 billion for the six months ended April 30, 2018, primarily due to the payment for the repurchase of debt of $1.85 billion and a higher share repurchase settlement amount of $0.7 billion.
Capital Resources



Debt Levels



We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital and targeted capital structure.
Outstanding borrowings decreased to $6.1 billion as of April 30, 2018 as compared to $7.8 billion as 



51

HP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of



Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)



of October 31, 2017, bearing weighted-average interest rates of 4.2% and 4.0% for April 30, 2018 and October 31, 2017, respectively, primarily due to the payment for the repurchase of approximately $1.85 billion in aggregate principal amount of U.S. Dollar Global Notes.
Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps.
For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 9, “Financial Instruments”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
As of April 30, 2018, we maintain a senior unsecured committed revolving credit facility with aggregate lending commitments of $4.0 billion, which will be available until March 30, 2023 and is primarily to support the issuance of commercial paper.
Funds borrowed under this revolving credit facility may also be used for general corporate purposes.
As of April 30, 2018, we had $1.0 billion of commercial paper outstanding.
We increased our issuance authorization under our commercial paper program from $4.0 billion to $6.0 billion in November 2017.
In December 2017, we also entered into an additional revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that provides us with $1.5 billion of available borrowings until November 30, 2018.
Available Borrowing Resources



We had the following resources available to obtain short or long-term financing in addition to the commercial paper and revolving credit facilities discussed above:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For more information on our borrowings, see Note 10, “Borrowings”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Credit Ratings



Our credit risk is evaluated by major independent rating agencies based upon publicly available information as well as information obtained in our ongoing discussions with them.
We can access alternative sources of funding, including drawdowns under our credit facilities, if necessary, to offset potential reductions in the market capacity for our commercial paper.
CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS



Contractual Obligations



During the three months ended April 30, 2018, we renegotiated certain purchase agreements, pursuant to which our unconditional purchase obligations as of April 30, 2018 were $0.9 billion, as compared to $1.2 billion as of October 31, 2017.
Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan Contributions



As of April 30, 2018, we anticipate making contributions for the remainder of fiscal year 2018 of approximately $17 million to our non-U.S. pension plans, $13 million to cover benefit payments to U.S. non-qualified pension plan participants and $7 million to cover benefit claims for our post-retirement benefit plans.
Our policy is to fund our pension plans so that we meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by local government, funding and taxing authorities.
For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
For more information on our restructuring activities that are part of our cost improvements, see Note 3, “Restructuring and Other Charges”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities.
We expect the actual cash payments for the tax to be much lower as we expect to reduce the overall liability by more than half once existing and future credits and other balance sheet attributes are used.
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS



As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
We have third-party short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers.
For more information on our third-party short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, “Supplementary Financial Information”, to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
53



Table of Contents
