PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, “Litigation and Contingencies” to the Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this report, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments.
We compete on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support and security.
We have a large portfolio of products and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product lines.
As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to their products and services compared to the resources allocated to our competing products and services.
Companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or may become our competitors in other areas.
In addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us.
In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply, may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer.
Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate.
Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers.
Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors.
For example, the refill and remanufactured alternatives for some of our LaserJet toner and InkJet cartridges compete with our Printing Supplies business.
Customers are increasingly using online and omnichannel resellers and distributors to purchase our products.
These resellers and distributors often sell our products alongside competing products, including low-cost alternatives, or they may highlight the availability of low-cost alternatives.
We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers.
Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process.
Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement or reduced assortments of our products.
Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past.
Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution and retail channel partners.
Net revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors’ financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds or operations weaken.
Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors.
We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges.
Sales of our products by channel partners to unauthorized resellers could also make our forecasting more difficult and impact pricing in the market.
If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities



There were no unregistered sales of equity securities during the period covered by this report.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On June 19, 2018, HP’s Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion for future repurchases of its outstanding shares of common stock.
This program, which does not have a specific expiration date, authorizes repurchases in the open market or in private transactions.
HP intends to use repurchases from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.
All share repurchases settled in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 were open market transactions.
As of January 31, 2019, HP had approximately $3.2 billion remaining under the share repurchase authorizations.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
56



Table of Contents  



Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
On March 1, 2019, HP amended its credit facility to remove the limitation on entry into sale and leaseback transactions, effective as of February 1, 2019.
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the amendment to the credit facility, which is filed as Exhibit 10(k)(k) hereto.
Disclosure Under Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended



Section 13(r) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, requires issuers to disclose certain types of dealings by the issuer or its affiliates relating to Iran or with certain individuals or entities that are subject to sanctions under U.S. law.
HP acquired the Apogee group, a U.K. based office equipment dealer, on November 1, 2018.
During the first quarter of 2019, HP discovered that its newly acquired subsidiary processed two service calls during November 2018, shortly after the acquisition, for toner replacement on behalf of Bank Saderat plc, with which it had a legacy contract.
Bank Saderat plc is subject to U.S. sanctions pursuant to Executive Order 13224.
The combined total value of the transactions was £85.52 ($112.92).
We are unable to accurately calculate the net profit attributable to these transactions.
Following HP’s discovery of these transactions and at HP’s direction, Apogee terminated the contract with Bank Saderat plc.
HP has disclosed these transactions to the relevant authorities.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index beginning on page 58 of this report sets forth a list of exhibits.
57



Table of Contents
