Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives, and management necessarily is required to use its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
As required by Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures.
This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer.
(b) Changes in Internal Control: We periodically review our internal control over financial reporting as part of our efforts to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In addition, we routinely review our system of internal control over financial reporting to identify potential changes to our processes and systems that may improve controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal control environment.
Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems, consolidating the activities of business units, migrating certain processes to our shared services organizations, formalizing policies and procedures, improving segregation of duties and increasing monitoring controls.
We also have begun the process of a multi-year, phased implementation targeted for completion in fiscal 2020 of a new core enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system in certain business units, which we expect to reduce the number of ERP systems across the Company and enhance our system of internal control over financial reporting.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we successfully completed the initial implementation of the ERP system in 2 business units.
36



Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not Applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Not Applicable.
38



Item 6.
Exhibits.
EXHIBIT INDEX



The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the SEC:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement



 39



SIGNATURE



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 40
