Item 1.
Financial Statements.
HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
1



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
2



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
3



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
4



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards



Basis of Presentation



The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) include the accounts of Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Intracompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The results for the second quarter and first two quarters of fiscal 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent period.
In connection with our divestitures in fiscal 2017 of two significant businesses that were part of our former Critical Networks segment, our remaining operations that had been part of our former Critical Networks segment were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated.
See Note B: Discontinued Operations in these Notes and Note 3: “Discontinued Operations and Divestitures” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K for additional information.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
Reclassifications



Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and information technology (“IT”) costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
Restructuring, Exelis Acquisition-Related Integration and Other Charges



We record restructuring charges for sales or terminations of product lines, closures or relocations of business activities, changes in management structure, and fundamental reorganizations that affect the nature and focus of operations.
Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees.
We 



 5



record these charges at their fair value when incurred.
In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period.
In fiscal 2017, we recorded $58 million of charges for integration and other costs in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”), substantially all of which were included as a component of the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Income in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. We had liabilities of $34 million at December 29, 2017 and $43 million at June 30, 2017 associated with this integration activity and with previous restructuring actions.
The majority of the remaining liabilities as of December 29, 2017 will be paid within the next twelve months.
Adoption of New Accounting Standards



In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, we adopted an accounting standards update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) that requires recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Consequently, this update eliminates the exception to the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for intra-entity transfers of assets other than for inventory until the assets have been sold to an outside party.
This update requires entities to apply a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative catch-up adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the period of adoption.
In addition, entities are required to record deferred tax balances with an offset to retained earnings for unrecognized amounts that will be recognized under this update.
We applied all changes required by this update using the modified retrospective approach from the beginning of fiscal 2018.
Adopting this update resulted in a $27 million reduction of prepaid income tax assets from the “Other current assets” and “Other non-current assets” line items and a $27 million increase in the “Non-current deferred income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) as of September 29, 2017.
Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective



In May 2014, the FASB issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based and, consequently, entities will be required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
To help financial statement users better understand the nature, amount, timing and potential uncertainty of the revenue that is recognized, this standard requires significantly more interim and annual disclosures.
This standard allows for either “full retrospective” adoption (application to all periods presented) or “modified retrospective” adoption (application to only the most current period presented in the financial statements, with certain additional required footnote disclosures).
In August 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that deferred the effective date of the standard by one year, while continuing to permit entities to elect to adopt the standard as early as the original effective date.
As a result, this standard is now effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019.
A significant portion of our revenue is derived from contracts with the U.S. Government, with revenue recognized using the percentage-of-completion (“POC”) method.
We expect to recognize revenue on an “over time” basis for most of these contracts by using cost inputs to measure progress toward the completion of our performance obligations, which is similar to the POC cost-to-cost method currently used on the majority of these contracts.
We also are continuing to evaluate the potential impact of this standard in other areas, including:



•The number of distinct performance obligations within our contractual arrangements;



•Contract modifications;



•The timing of revenue recognition based on the more prescriptive guidance for recognizing revenue on an “over time” basis, especially for certain non-U.S. Government contracts based on existing contractual language; 



•Incremental costs of obtaining a contract; and



•Estimation and recognition of variable consideration for contracts to provide services.
Because of the broad scope of this standard, it could impact revenue and cost recognition across all of our business segments as well as related business processes and IT systems.
We also have not yet made a determination regarding the use of a full retrospective or modified retrospective adoption approach for this standard, as this determination is primarily dependent on the completion of our analysis.
In February 2016, the FASB issued a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This standard requires lessees to record most leases on their balance sheets but recognize expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to existing lease guidance under GAAP.
Entities are required to use a modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements, with the option to use certain relief.
Full retrospective application is prohibited.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
In March 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to improve the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost.
This update requires that entities present components of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost other than the service cost component separately from the service cost component and outside the subtotal of income from operations.
This update must be applied retrospectively and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, which for us is our fiscal 2019.
Adopting this update will result in a decrease in operating income and an increase in the net non-operating components of income from continuing operations of $164 million and $183 million for fiscal 2017 and 2018, respectively.
Adopting this update will not have a material impact on our financial position or cash flows.
Note B — Discontinued Operations



We completed two significant divestitures during fiscal 2017, the divestiture of our government IT services business (“IT Services”) and the divestiture of our Harris CapRock Communications commercial business (“CapRock”), which are described in more detail below.
These divestitures individually and collectively represented a strategic shift away from non-core markets (for example, energy, maritime and government IT services).
7



The major components of discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) included the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)“Loss on sale of discontinued operations” in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016 consisted of transaction costs associated with the divestiture of IT Services.
Depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures of discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) included the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



IT Services



On April 28, 2017, we completed the divestiture to an affiliate of Veritas Capital Fund Management, L.L.C.
(“Veritas”) of IT Services, which primarily provided IT and engineering managed services to U.S. Government customers, for net cash proceeds of $646 million, after transaction expenses and estimated purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital, and subject to post-closing finalization of those adjustments as set forth in the definitive sales agreement entered into January 26, 2017.
We recognized a pre-tax loss of $28 million on the sale of IT Services (a gain of $55 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction or $.44 per diluted share).
The decision to divest IT Services was part of our strategy to simplify our operating model to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses.
IT Services was part of our former Critical Networks segment and in connection with the definitive agreement to sell IT Services, as described above, the remaining operations that had been part of the Critical Networks segment, including our air traffic management (“ATM”) business, primarily serving the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated.
We agreed to provide various transition services to Veritas for a period of up to 18 months following the closing of the transaction pursuant to a separate agreement.
8



The following table presents the key financial results of IT Services included in “Discontinued operations, net of income taxes” in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



CapRock



On January 1, 2017, we completed the divestiture to SpeedCast International Ltd. (“SpeedCast”) of CapRock, which provided wireless, terrestrial and satellite communications services to energy and maritime customers, for net cash proceeds of $368 million, after transaction expenses and purchase price adjustments in respect of net cash and working capital as set forth in the definitive sales agreement entered into November 1, 2016.
We recognized a pre-tax gain of $14 million on the sale of CapRock (a gain of $61 million after certain tax benefits related to the transaction, including reversal of valuation allowances on capital losses and net operating losses, or $.49 per diluted share).
The following table presents the key financial results of CapRock included in “Discontinued operations, net of income taxes” in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note C — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation



During the two quarters ended December 29, 2017, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP.
We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders.
Certain share-based awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined under our SIPs).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $13 million and $24 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and $11 million and $21 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
The aggregate number of shares of our common stock that we issued under the terms of our SIPs, net of shares withheld for tax purposes and inclusive of both continuing and discontinued operations, was 67,717 and 398,932 for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and 191,740 and 733,953 for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
Awards granted to participants under our 2015 EIP during the quarter ended December 29, 2017 consisted of 698 stock options, 1,140 restricted shares and restricted units and 228 performance units.
9



Awards granted to participants under our 2015 EIP during the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 consisted of 412,285 stock options, 130,065 restricted shares and restricted units and 173,635 performance units.
The fair value as of the grant date of each stock option award was determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model and the following assumptions: expected dividend yield of 1.82 percent; expected volatility of 19.32 percent; risk-free interest rates averaging 1.77 percent; and expected term of 5.00 years.
The fair value as of the grant date of each restricted share award and restricted unit award was based on the closing price of our common stock on the grant date.
The fair value as of the grant date of each performance unit award was determined based on the fair value from a multifactor Monte Carlo valuation model that simulates our stock price and total shareholder return (“TSR”) relative to companies in our TSR peer group, less a discount to reflect the delay in payments of cash dividend-equivalents that are made only upon vesting.
Note D — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss



The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note E — Receivables



Receivables are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note F — Inventories



Inventories are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Unbilled costs and accrued earnings on fixed-price contracts were net of progress payments of $113 million and $90 million at December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively.
10



Note G — Property, Plant and Equipment



Property, plant and equipment are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $36 million and $73 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and $35 million and $74 million for the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
Note H — Accrued Warranties



Changes in our liability for standard product warranties, which is included as a component of the “Other accrued items” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited), during the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We also sell extended product warranties and recognize revenue from these arrangements over the warranty period.
Costs of warranty services under these arrangements are recognized as incurred.
Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $20 million at December 29, 2017 and $23 million at June 30, 2017 and is included as a component of the “Advance payments and unearned income” and “Other long-term liabilities” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
11



Note I — Long-Term Debt



Long-term debt is summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On November 6, 2017, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due April 30, 2020 (“Floating Rate Notes”).
We incurred $2 million of debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes, which are being amortized using the effective interest rate method over the life of the Floating Rate Notes, and such amortization is reflected as a portion of interest expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
The Floating Rate Notes will bear interest at a floating rate, reset quarterly, equal to three-month LIBOR plus 0.48% per year.
Interest is payable quarterly in arrears on January 30, April 30, July 30 and October 30 of each year, commencing January 30, 2018.
The Floating Rate Notes are not redeemable at our option prior to maturity.
Upon a change of control combined with a below-investment-grade rating event, we may be required to make an offer to repurchase the Floating Rate Notes at a price equal to 101 percent of the aggregate principal amount of the Floating Rate Notes being repurchased, plus accrued interest on the Floating Rate Notes being repurchased to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
In connection with the closing of the sale of the Floating Rate Notes, we used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015, and recognized a $1 million extinguishment loss, which is included as a component of the “Non-operating income (loss)” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited), as a result of associated unamortized debt issuance costs.
For additional information on our long-term debt, see Note 13: “Long-Term Debt” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.



 12



Note J — Postretirement Benefit Plans



The following tables provide the components of our net periodic benefit income for our defined benefit plans, including defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement defined benefit plans: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)$1 million of the service cost component of net periodic benefit income is included as a component of the “Discontinued operations, net of income taxes” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) for the two quarters ended December 30, 2016.
As a result, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017.
We currently anticipate making voluntary contributions of approximately $300 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and contributions of approximately $1 million to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
We contributed $39 million and $103 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
The U.S.
Salaried Retirement Plan (“U.S.
SRP”), a U.S. qualified pension plan, is our largest defined benefit pension plan, with assets valued at $4.4 billion and a projected benefit obligation of $5.6 billion as of June 30, 2017.
Effective December 31, 2016, future benefit accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance defined benefit formula for certain non-highly compensated employees.
13



Note K — Income From Continuing Operations Per Common Share



The computations of income from continuing operations per common share are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and performance unit awards.
In addition to the impacts from the Tax Act described above, our effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 29, 2017 benefited from a $22 million ($.18 per diluted share) favorable impact of releasing provisions for uncertain tax positions and the favorable impact of differences in GAAP and tax accounting related to investments.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 30, 2016 was not impacted by any significant discrete item.
Our effective tax rate was 33.5 percent in the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 compared with 29.7 percent in the two quarters ended December 30, 2016.
In addition to the items noted above for the quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, our effective tax rate for the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.
14



Provisional Amounts



We remeasured certain deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the rate at which we expect them to reverse in the future, which generally is 28 percent for reversals in fiscal 2018 or 21 percent for reversals after fiscal 2018.
However, we are still refining our calculations, which include estimates for our fiscal 2017 and 2018 layers for foreign E&P, and they could change and therefore change the amount of transition tax we will owe.
Note M — Fair Value Measurements



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal market (or most advantageous market, in the absence of a principal market) for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Entities are required to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in measuring fair value, and to utilize a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value.
The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows:



•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.
In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services.
In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”).
Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.
Under these plans, participants designate investment options (including money market, stock and fixed-income funds), which serve as the basis for measurement of the notional value of their accounts.
The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our significant financial instruments that were not measured at fair value (carrying amounts of other financial instruments not listed in the table below approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of those items):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Fair value was estimated using a market approach based on quoted market prices for our debt traded in the secondary market.
If our long-term debt in our balance sheet were measured at fair value, it would be categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions.
We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value.
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
At December 29, 2017, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $34 million, all of which were classified as cash flow hedges.
This compares with open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $33 million at June 30, 2017, of which $2 million were classified as fair value hedges and $31 million were classified as cash flow hedges.
At December 29, 2017, contract expiration dates ranged from 11 days to approximately 6 months with a weighted average contract life of 4 months.
16



Fair Value Hedges



We have used foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
As of December 29, 2017, we had no outstanding foreign currency forward contracts to hedge balance sheet items.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016.
In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
Cash Flow Hedges



We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations.
As of December 29, 2017, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts denominated in the Euro and British Pound to hedge certain forecasted transactions.
The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 or in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
Development and production contracts are combined when specific aggregation criteria are met.
Criteria generally include closely interrelated activities performed for a single customer within the same economic environment.
Development and production contracts are generally not segmented.
If development and production contracts are segmented, we have determined that they meet specific segmenting criteria.
Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable.
Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance.
Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs.
We are party to certain contracts with incentive provisions or award fees that are subject to uncertainty until the conclusion of the contract, and our customers may be entitled to reclaim and receive previous award fee payments.
Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on a fixed-price development or production contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion.
Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
As the cost-reimbursable contract progresses, our estimates of total contract value may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive 



 17



higher or lower than expected award fees.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Anticipated losses on development and production contracts or programs in progress are charged to operating income when identified.
Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income unfavorably by $10 million ($7 million after-tax or $.06 per diluted share) and favorably by $1 million in the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017, respectively, and favorably by $6 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) and $19 million ($12 million after-tax or $.10 per diluted share) in the quarter and two quarters ended December 30, 2016, respectively.
Note P — Business Segments



We structure our operations primarily around the products, systems and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three reportable segments, which are also referred to as our business segments:



•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 



•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) solutions for the defense industry and ATM solutions for the civil aviation industry; and 



•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics.
As described in more detail in “Basis of Presentation” in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards and Note B — Discontinued Operations in these Notes, in connection with our divestiture of CapRock and entering into the definitive agreement to sell IT Services in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, our other remaining operations that had been part of our former Critical Networks segment, including our ATM business primarily serving the FAA, were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated.
Intersegment sales are generally transferred at cost to the buying segment, and the sourcing segment recognizes a profit that is eliminated.
The “Corporate eliminations” and “Corporate eliminations, net” line items in the table below represent the elimination of intersegment sales and their related profits.
The “Unallocated corporate expense” line item in the table below represents the portion of corporate expenses not allocated to our business segments.
We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated.
Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred.
Environmental Matters 



We are subject to numerous U.S. Federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulatory requirements and are involved from time to time in investigations or litigation of various potential environmental issues.
These sites are in various stages of investigation and/or remediation and in some of these proceedings our liability is considered de minimis.
We have received notices from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) or equivalent state or international environmental agencies that a number of sites formerly or currently owned and/or operated by us or companies we have acquired, and other properties or water supplies that may be or have been impacted from those operations, contain disposed or recycled materials or wastes and require environmental investigation and/or remediation.
These sites include instances where we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as the “Superfund Act”) and/or equivalent state and international laws.
For example, Exelis received notice in June 2014 from the U.S. Department of Justice, Environment and Natural Resources Division, that it may be potentially responsible for contribution to the environmental investigation and remediation of multiple locations in Alaska.
In addition, the EPA issued on March 4, 2016, a record of decision selecting a remedy for the lower 8.3 mile stretch of the Lower Passaic River.
The EPA’s selected remedy included dredging the river bank to bank, installing an engineered cap and long-term monitoring.
The EPA estimated the cost of the cleanup project will be $1.38 billion.
On March 31, 2016, the EPA notified over 100 potentially responsible parties, including Exelis, of their potential liability for the cost of the cleanup project but their respective allocations have not been determined.
We have found no evidence that Exelis contributed any of the primary contaminants of concern to the Passaic River.
We intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter and we believe our ultimate costs will not be material.
20



REVIEW REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM



The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Harris Corporation



We have reviewed the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of December 29, 2017, and the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarter and two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the two quarters ended December 29, 2017 and December 30, 2016.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters.
It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole.
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements referred to above for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
In our opinion, the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation as of June 30, 2017, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP



Orlando, Florida



January 31, 2018 



 21
