PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
General.
We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated.
Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
We believe we have adequately accrued for any ultimate amounts that are likely to result from these audits; however, final assessments, if any, could be different from the amounts recorded in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 536,500 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program for $75 million at an average price per share of $139.96, excluding commissions of $.02 per share.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Shares repurchased by us are cancelled and retired.
The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the second quarter of fiscal 2018:



 37



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Periods represent our fiscal months.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)Represents a combination of (a) shares of our common stock delivered to us in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligation of holders of performance units, restricted units or restricted shares that vested during the quarter and (b) performance units, restricted units or restricted shares returned to us upon retirement or employment termination of employees.
Our equity incentive plans provide that the value of shares delivered to us to pay the exercise price of options or to cover tax withholding obligations shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs.
Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities



During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Not Applicable.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not Applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Not Applicable.
38



Item 6.
Exhibits.
EXHIBIT INDEX



The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the SEC:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement



 39
