PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
General.
Claimed amounts against us may be substantial, but may not bear any reasonable relationship to the merits of the claim



or the extent of any real risk of court or arbitral awards.
We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we



consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated.
Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized



and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred.
At September 27, 2019, our accrual for the potential resolution of lawsuits, claims or proceedings that we consider probable of being decided unfavorably to us was not material.
Based on available information, in the opinion of management, settlements, arbitration awards and final judgments, if any, that are considered probable of being rendered against us in litigation or arbitration in existence at September 27, 2019 are reserved against or would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
New Share Repurchase Program



On July 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization (“2019 Repurchase Program”), replacing our prior share repurchase program.
Repurchases under the new program may be made through open-market transactions, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we repurchased 3.6 million shares of our common stock under our 2019 Repurchase Program.
Shares repurchased by us are canceled and retired.
The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
52



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Periods represent our fiscal months.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)Represents a combination of: (a) shares of our common stock delivered to us in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligation of holders of performance units, restricted units or restricted shares that vested during the quarter and (b) performance units, restricted units or restricted shares returned to us upon retirement or employment termination of employees.
Our equity incentive plans provide that the value of shares delivered to us to pay the exercise price of options or to cover tax withholding obligations shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs.
Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities



During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Not Applicable.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not Applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Not Applicable.
53



Item 6.
Exhibits.
EXHIBIT INDEX



The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the SEC:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_______________



*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
54
