Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.
Foreign Exchange and Currency: We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge both balance sheet and off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments.
A 10 percent change in currency exchange rates for our foreign currency derivatives held at December 28, 2018 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of such instruments or our results of operations or cash flows.
This quantification of exposure to the market risk associated with foreign currency financial instruments does not take into account 



 36



the offsetting impact of changes in the fair value of our foreign denominated assets, liabilities and firm commitments.
See Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.
Interest Rates: As of December 28, 2018, we had long-term fixed-rate debt obligations.
The fair value of these obligations is impacted by changes in interest rates; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for our long-term fixed-rate debt obligations at December 28, 2018 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these obligations.
We can give no assurances, however, that interest rates will not change significantly or have a material effect on the fair value of our long-term debt obligations over the next twelve months.
As of December 28, 2018, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $550 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020, and $300 million of Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019.
These debt obligations bear interest that is variable based on certain short-term indices, thus exposing us to interest-rate risk; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for these debt obligations at December 28, 2018 would not have had a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows.
