Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
OVERVIEW



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.
We report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three segments, which are also referred to as our business segments:



•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 



•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and C4ISR solutions for the defense industry and ATM solutions for the civil aviation industry; and



•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics.
As described in more detail in “Basis of Presentation” in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards and Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes, in connection with our divestiture of CapRock and entering into the definitive agreement to sell IT Services in the third quarter of fiscal 2017, our other remaining operations that had been part of our former Critical Networks segment, including our ATM business primarily serving the FAA, were integrated with our Electronic Systems segment effective for the third quarter of fiscal 2017, and our Critical Networks segment was eliminated.
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-year classifications.
Reclassifications include certain human resources and IT costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
22



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Highlights



Operations results for the second quarter of fiscal 2018, in each case compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017, included:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net cash provided by operating activities increased 26 percent to $373 million in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 from $295 million in the first two quarters of fiscal 2017.
Consolidated Results of Operations



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 23



Revenue



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The increase in revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher revenue in our Communication Systems and Electronic Systems segments, partially offset by a slight revenue decline in our Space and Intelligence Systems segment.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The revenue increase in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was due to higher revenue in all three segments.
See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.
Gross Margin



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The slight increase in gross margin in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher revenue in our Communication Systems segment, mostly offset by a $22 million favorable contract settlement on the Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (“ADS-B”) program in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 in our Electronic Systems segment and a reduction in benefits from net EAC adjustments in our Electronic Systems segment.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The slight decrease in gross margin in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from the ADS-B program, including the favorable contract settlement in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and the program transition from build-out to sustainment, mostly offset by higher revenue in our Communication Systems segment.
See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.
Gross Margin Percentage



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The slight decrease in gross margin as a percentage of total revenue (“gross margin percentage”) in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the impact of the $22 million favorable contract settlement on the ADS-B program in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and a reduction in benefits from net EAC adjustments in our Electronic Systems segment, mostly offset by the impact of higher revenue in our Communication Systems segment.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The slight decrease in gross margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.
Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The increase in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and higher research and development expenses, partially offset by cost containment and not incurring in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $13 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.
ESA as a percentage of total revenue (“ESA percentage”) in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was comparable with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 as the increase in ESA expenses was offset by the increase in revenue.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The decreases in ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to cost containment and not incurring in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $30 million in the first two quarters of fiscal 2017, partially offset by the effect of the other items discussed above regarding the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.
Operating Income



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The decreases in operating income and operating income as a percentage of total revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
24



First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The increase in operating income and comparability of operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
Income Taxes



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 39.3 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with 30.6 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, our effective tax rate was not impacted by any significant discrete item.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: Our effective tax rate was 33.5 percent in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with 29.7 percent in the first two quarters of fiscal 2017.
In addition to the items noted above for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017, our effective tax rate for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation.
Income From Continuing Operations



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The decrease in income from continuing operations in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The slight decrease in income from continuing operations in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The decrease in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to lower income from continuing operations, partially offset by fewer diluted weighted average common shares outstanding due to repurchases of shares of common stock under our repurchase program during the last two quarters of fiscal 2017 and first two quarters of fiscal 2018.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to fewer diluted weighted average common shares outstanding due to repurchases of shares of common stock under our repurchase program during the last two quarters of fiscal 2017 and first two quarters of fiscal 2018.
See “Common Stock Repurchases” below in this MD&A for further information.
25



Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations



Communication Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $57 million of higher U.S. Department of Defense tactical communications sales from readiness demand across all of the Services and $15 million of higher international tactical communications sales, driven by strong growth in the Middle East.
The increase in segment gross margin in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in revenue.
The 2 percentage point decrease in segment gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a less favorable mix of program and product revenue.
The increase in segment ESA expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher selling costs, reflecting the higher international tactical communications sales, and higher employment costs.
The 2 percentage point decrease in segment ESA percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the increase in segment revenue and cost containment.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The increases in segment revenue and segment gross margin in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
Segment gross margin percentage for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 decreased slightly compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017, partially offset by the benefit of operational excellence improvements.
The decreases in segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to cost containment.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
26



Electronic Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $25 million of higher revenue from avionics and C4ISR programs and higher revenue in wireless solutions, partially offset by a $22 million favorable contract settlement on the ADS-B program in our mission networks business in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.
Segment gross margin decreased $29 million and segment gross margin percentage decreased 6 percentage points in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 primarily due to the $22 million favorable contract settlement on the ADS-B program in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and a reduction in benefits from net EAC adjustments, partially offset by the gross margin impact of higher volume in avionics and C4ISR.
The increases in segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to higher R&D expenses.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $42 million of higher revenue in avionics and C4ISR programs and $13 million of incremental inception-to-date services revenue in our ATM business, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from the ADS-B program, including the favorable contract settlement in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and the program transition from build-out to sustainment.
Segment gross margin decreased $33 million and segment gross margin percentage decreased 3 percentage points in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 primarily due to a $36 million unfavorable impact from the ADS-B program, including the favorable contract settlement in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and the program transition from build-out to sustainment.
The increase in segment ESA expenses and comparability of ESA percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to higher R&D expenses and the impact of higher segment revenue.
The decreases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
27



Space and Intelligence Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The slight decrease in segment revenue in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $9 million of lower civil revenue reflecting the impact of lower revenue from environmental programs, partially offset by higher revenue from classified programs and commercial customers.
The increases in segment gross margin and gross margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were primarily attributable to higher pension income and productivity savings.
The slight increases in segment ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 were due to higher direct selling costs.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The increase in segment revenue in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $26 million of higher revenue from classified programs, primarily driven by space superiority programs, partially offset by lower civil revenue primarily driven by lower revenue from environmental programs.
The increases in segment gross margin, gross margin percentage, ESA expenses and ESA percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 were primarily due to the same reasons as noted above regarding this segment for the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
Unallocated Corporate Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The increase in unallocated corporate expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, increased investment in business development and the timing of other expense accruals, partially offset by the absence of Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $13 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The decrease in unallocated corporate expense in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to not incurring in 



 28



the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 any Exelis acquisition-related charges, which totaled $30 million in the first two quarters of fiscal 2017, partially offset by the effect of the other items discussed above regarding the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
Discontinued Operations



As described in more detail in Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes, IT Services and CapRock are reported as discontinued operations in this Report.
As a result, our historical financial results have been restated to account for IT Services and CapRock as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Report.
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES



Cash Flows



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited) includes cash flows from discontinued operations related to CapRock, IT Services and our former broadcast communications business (“Broadcast Communications”).
See Note B — Discontinued Operations in the Notes for additional information regarding discontinued operations, including depreciation, amortization and capital expenditures.
Except for disclosures related to our cash flows, or unless otherwise specified, disclosures in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), the accompanying Notes and this MD&A relate solely to our continuing operations.
Cash and cash equivalents: The $62 million net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2017 to the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $150 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; $137 million used to pay cash dividends; $115 million of net repayment of borrowings, which included repayment in full of the remaining $253 million in outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our variable-rate term loans due May 29, 2020, $75 million of repayment of short-term debt outstanding under our commercial paper program and $250 million in proceeds from the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes due April 2020; and $43 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment; partially offset by $373 million of net cash provided by operating activities and $18 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options.
The $126 million net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2016 to the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $134 million used to pay cash dividends; $115 million of net repayment of borrowings, which included repayment of the entire outstanding $250 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.25% notes due October 1, 2016; $100 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; $49 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment; $25 million for adjustments to proceeds from the sale of a business and $19 million used in other financing activities; partially offset by $295 million of net cash provided by operating activities and $27 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options.
At December 29, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $422 million, and we have a senior unsecured $1 billion revolving credit facility that expires in July 2020 (all of which was available to us as of December 29, 2017).
Additionally, we had $3.9 billion of long-term debt outstanding at December 29, 2017, the majority of which we incurred in connection with our acquisition of Exelis in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.
For further information regarding our long-term debt, see Note I — Long-Term Debt in the Notes and Note 13: “Long-Term Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K. Our $422 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 29, 2017 included $133 million held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $82 million was considered permanently reinvested.
Determining the future tax cost of repatriating such funds to the U.S. is not practical at this time, because the cost impact of the rules regarding the netting of earnings of related foreign subsidiaries is subject to clarification.
However, we have no current plans to repatriate such funds.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with 



 29



liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
We also currently believe that existing cash, funds generated from operations, our credit facility and access to the public and private debt and equity markets will be sufficient to provide for our anticipated working capital requirements, capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program, repayments of our term loan and debt securities at maturity and potential voluntary pension contributions for the next 12 months and the reasonably foreseeable future thereafter.
Our total capital expenditures in fiscal 2018 are expected to be approximately $130 million.
Other than those cash outlays noted in “Contractual Obligations” in Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K (including repayment at maturity of the entire $500 million principal amount of our 1.999% Notes due April 27, 2018) and “Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations” below in this MD&A, capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program and potential voluntary pension contributions, no other significant cash outlays are anticipated during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Net cash provided by operating activities: The $78 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to lower cash income tax payments and the elimination of required qualified pension plan contributions due to our $400 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans during fiscal 2017 (see the “Funding of Pension Plans” discussion below in this MD&A for additional information), partially offset by higher relative accounts receivable balances and by cash flows from discontinued operations that are included in the first two quarters of fiscal 2017.
Net cash used in investing activities: The $29 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a $25 million adjustment in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to the proceeds from the sale of Broadcast Communications.
Net cash used in financing activities: The $53 million increase in net cash used in financing activities in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to $50 million more used to repurchase shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program.
Funding of Pension Plans



Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds.
With respect to our U.S. qualified pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.
The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020.
As a result, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the first two quarters of fiscal 2018.
We currently anticipate making voluntary contributions of approximately $300 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the remainder of fiscal 2018.
Future required contributions primarily will depend on the actual annual return on assets and the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation at the end of each year.
Depending on these factors, and the resulting funded status of our pension plans, the level of future statutory required minimum contributions could be material.
We had net unfunded defined benefit plan obligations of $1.2 billion at December 29, 2017.
See Note 14: “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K and Note J — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information regarding our pension plans.
30



Common Stock Repurchases 



During the first two quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $150 million to repurchase 1,153,811 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $130.10, including commissions of $.02 per share.
During the first two quarters of fiscal 2017, we used $100 million to repurchase 1,100,203 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $90.45, including commissions of $.02 per share.
In the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, $10 million and $19 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards.
Shares purchased by us are cancelled and retired.
As of December 29, 2017, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $823 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date.
Repurchases under our repurchase program are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
Additional information regarding our repurchase program is set forth in this Report under Part II.
Item 2.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”



Dividends



On August 25, 2017, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.53 per share to $.57 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.28 per share, which was our sixteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2017 was $2.12 per share.
There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase.
Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December.
We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends.
Capital Structure and Resources



2015 Credit Agreement: We have a $1 billion, 5-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2015 Credit Facility”) under a Revolving Credit Agreement (the “2015 Credit Agreement”) entered into on July 1, 2015 with a syndicate of lenders.
For a description of the 2015 Credit Facility and the 2015 Credit Agreement, see Note 11: “Credit Arrangements” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.



We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2015 Credit Agreement at December 29, 2017, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2015 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
At December 29, 2017, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2015 Credit Agreement.
Long-Term Debt: For a description of our long-term variable-rate and fixed-rate debt, see Note I — Long-Term Debt



 in the Notes and Note 13: “Long-Term Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.



During the second quarter of fiscal 2018, we completed the issuance and sale of $250 million in aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020 and used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay in full the $253 million in remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our $1.3 billion senior unsecured term loan facility pursuant to our Term Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2015.
Short-Term Debt: Our short-term debt at December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017 was $5 million and $80 million, respectively.
Our short-term debt at December 29, 2017 consisted of local borrowing by international subsidiaries for working capital needs.
Our short-term debt at June 30, 2017 consisted of local borrowing by international subsidiaries for working capital needs and commercial paper.
Our commercial paper program was supported at December 29, 2017 and June 30, 2017 by the 2015 Credit Facility.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



In accordance with the definition under SEC rules, any of the following qualify as off-balance sheet arrangements:



•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;



•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and



 31



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or research and development services with the registrant.
As of December 29, 2017, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above.
We have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses and assets.
In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.
Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations



The amounts disclosed in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K include our contractual obligations and commercial commitments.
Except for changes in our long-term debt as described under “Capital Structure and Resources” in this MD&A, no material changes occurred during the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 in our contractual cash obligations to repay debt, to purchase goods and services, to make payments under operating leases or our commercial commitments, or in our contingent liabilities on outstanding surety bonds, standby letters of credit or other arrangements as disclosed in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K.



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These estimates and assumptions are affected by the application of our accounting policies.
Critical accounting policies and estimates for us include: (i) revenue recognition on contracts and contract estimates (discussed in greater detail in the following paragraphs), (ii) postretirement benefit plans, (iii) provisions for excess and obsolete inventory losses, (iv) impairment testing of goodwill, and (v) income taxes and tax valuation allowances.
For additional discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized using the POC method, generally based on the ratio of costs incurred to estimated total costs at completion under the contract (i.e., the “cost-to-cost” method) or the ratio of actual units delivered to estimated total units to be delivered under the contract (i.e., the “units-of-delivery” method) with consideration given for risk of performance and estimated profit.
The majority of the revenue in our Space and Intelligence Systems and Electronic Systems segments (and to a certain extent, revenue in our Communication Systems segment) relates to development and production contracts, and the POC method of revenue recognition is primarily used for these contracts.
Change orders, claims or other items that may change the scope of a development or production contract are included in contract value only when the value can be reliably estimated and realization is probable.
Possible incentives or penalties and award fees applicable to performance on development and production contracts are considered in estimating contract value and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance.
Incentive provisions that increase earnings based solely on a single significant event are generally not recognized until the event occurs.
We are party to certain contracts with incentive provisions or award fees that are subject to uncertainty until the conclusion of the contract, and our customers may be entitled to reclaim and receive previous award fee payments.
32



Under the POC method of accounting, a single estimated total profit margin is used to recognize profit for each development and production contract over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on fixed-price development and production contracts requires estimates of the total cost at completion and the measurement of progress toward completion.
The estimated profit or loss on a development or production contract is equal to the difference between the estimated contract value and the estimated total cost at completion.
Due to the long-term nature of many of our programs, developing the estimated total cost at completion often requires judgment.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance, the risk and impact of delayed performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer and the recoverability of any claims outside the original development or production contract included in the estimate to complete.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard estimate at completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing development and production contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
Additionally, at the outset of a cost-reimbursable contract (for example, contracts containing award or incentive fees), we establish an estimate of total contract value, or revenue, based on our expectation of performance on the contract.
As the cost-reimbursable contract progresses, our estimates of total contract value may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive higher or lower than expected award fees.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total contract value are determined, the related impact to operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Anticipated losses on development and production contracts or programs in progress are charged to operating income when identified.
We have not made any material changes in the methodologies used to recognize revenue on development and production contracts or to estimate our costs related to development and production contracts in the past three fiscal years.
EAC adjustments had the following impacts to operating income for the periods presented: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Second Quarter 2018 Compared With Second Quarter 2017: The reduction in benefit to operating income from net EAC adjustments in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 compared with the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to a $15 million adjustment for growth in EAC costs on a mission networks infrastructure development program.
First Two Quarters 2018 Compared With First Two Quarters 2017: The reduction in benefit to operating income from net EAC adjustments in the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 compared with the first two quarters of fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the same reason as noted above regarding the second quarters of fiscal 2018 and 2017.
In these arrangements, judgment is required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and the timing of revenue recognition for each deliverable.
If we determine that individual deliverables represent separate units of accounting, we recognize the revenue associated with each unit of accounting separately, and contract revenue is allocated among the separate units of accounting at the inception of the arrangement based on relative selling price.
If options or change orders materially change the scope of work or price of the contract subsequent to inception, we reevaluate and adjust our prior conclusions regarding units of accounting and allocation of contract revenue as necessary.
The allocation of selling price among the separate units of accounting may impact the timing of revenue recognition, but will not change the total revenue recognized on the arrangement.
We establish the selling price used for each deliverable based on the vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of selling price, or third-party evidence (“TPE”) of selling price if VSOE of selling price is not available, or best estimate of selling price (“BESP”) if neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price is available.
In determining TPE of selling price, we evaluate competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately.
Generally, comparable pricing of our products to those of our competitors with similar functionality cannot be obtained.
33



The FASB has issued a comprehensive new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and will be effective for us in fiscal 2019.
See Note A: Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for additional information.
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards



Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as the U.S. Government’s inability to complete its budget process and consequently having to operate pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event of cost overruns or a significant increase in inflation.
•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
•Disputes with our subcontractors and the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
•We must attract and retain key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us.
•In connection with the Vectrus spin-off, Vectrus indemnified Exelis for certain liabilities and Exelis indemnified Vectrus for certain liabilities.
This indemnity may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Vectrus and Vectrus may be unable to satisfy its indemnification obligations to us in the future.
•The Vectrus spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.
•The ITT Corporation (“ITT”) spin-off of Exelis may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and Federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2017 Form 10-K and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
