Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.
We employ established policies and procedures governing the use of financial instruments to manage our exposure to such risks.
We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge both balance sheet and off-balance sheet future foreign currency transactions.
A 10 percent change in currency exchange rates for our foreign currency derivatives held at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of such instruments or our results of operations or cash flows.
This quantification of exposure to the market risk associated with foreign currency financial instruments does not take into account the offsetting impact of changes in the fair value of our foreign currency denominated assets, liabilities and firm commitments.
See Note U — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.
Interest Rates: At September 27, 2019, we had long-term fixed-rate debt obligations.
The fair value of these obligations is impacted by changes in interest rates; however, a 10 percent change in interest rates for our long-term fixed-rate debt obligations at September 27, 2019 would not have had a material impact on the fair value of these obligations.
At September 27, 2019, we also had long-term variable-rate debt obligations of $250 million, comprised of $250 million of Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020.
See Note M — Debt in the Notes for further information.
We utilize derivative instruments, from time to time, to mitigate interest rate risk associated with anticipated debt transactions.
If the derivative instrument is designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses from changes in the fair value of such instrument are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified to interest expense in the period in which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
At September 27, 2019, we had three outstanding treasury lock agreements, with a notional amount of $1.05 billion, to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 and the entire $650 million outstanding principal amount of the 4.95% Notes due February 15, 2021.
We designated these treasury locks as cash flow hedges against fluctuations in interest payments on the Notes due to changes in the benchmark interest rate prior to issuance, which we expect to occur before the date of maturity of the 2020 Notes and 2021 Notes.
An unrealized after-tax loss of $54 million associated with these treasury locks was deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 27, 2019.
See Note U — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information.
50
