Item 1.
Financial Statements.
HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
1



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
2



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
3



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
4



HARRIS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]See accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
5



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards 



Basis of Presentation



The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) include the accounts of Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
As used in these Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) (these “Notes”), the terms “Harris,” “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Harris Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Intracompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) have been prepared by Harris, without an audit, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
See “Adoption of New Accounting Standards” below in this Note A for additional information.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
Reclassifications



The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in these Notes.
Adoption of New Accounting Standards



As discussed above, we adopted ASC 606 effective June 30, 2018.
This standard supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
The core principle of this standard is that entities should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services.
We adopted the requirements of the new standard using the full retrospective transition method.
We opted for this transition method because we believe it provides enhanced comparability and transparency across periods.
We elected to apply the practical expedient related to backlog disclosures for prior reporting periods and the practical expedient related to evaluating the effects of contract modifications that occurred prior to the earliest period presented.
No other transition practical expedients were applied.
Retrospective application of this standard resulted in the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment of $15 million to reduce the opening balance of retained earnings at July 2, 2016.
Total net cash provided by operating activities and total net cash provided by or used in investing activities and financing activities in our previously reported Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited) were not impacted by our adoption of ASC 606.
We also adopted ASU 2017-07 effective June 30, 2018, as discussed above.
This update requires that entities present components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs other than the service cost component (“non-service cost amounts”) separately from the service cost component.
We adopted this update retrospectively by recasting each prior period presented, using as our estimation basis for recasting prior periods the amounts disclosed in Note 13: “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K. Retrospective application of this update resulted in reclassification to the “Non-operating income” line item of non-service cost amounts that were included in the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) prior to adopting ASU 2017-07.
7



The following table summarizes the effect of adopting ASC 606 and ASU 2017-07 on our previously reported Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 8



The following table presents the effect of adopting ASC 606 on our previously reported Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited) for the three quarters ended March 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_______________



(1)“Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles” includes amortization of non-Exelis Inc. acquisition-related intangibles, which was previously included in the “Depreciation and amortization” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (Unaudited) in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
The new standard currently allows two transition methods with certain practical expedients available.
Companies may elect to use the modified retrospective approach for leases that exist or are entered into after the beginning of the earliest comparative period in the financial statements or to initially apply this standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
This standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, which for us is our fiscal 2020.
We expect to adopt the new lease standard on June 29, 2019 by applying the standard at the adoption date and recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The majority of our current lease arrangements are classified as operating leases under existing GAAP lease guidance, and we expect they will continue to be classified as operating leases under the new standard.
We have made progress in executing our implementation plan, including identifying our lease population.
We are in the process of implementing a new lease management software tool as well as new processes and controls.
Once we have configured the new lease management tool and have accumulated compatible lease data, we expect to measure the right-of-use assets and liabilities for leases in effect at the adoption date, which could be material.
9



Note B — Stock Options and Other Share-Based Compensation 



During the three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we had options or other share-based compensation outstanding under two shareholder-approved employee stock incentive plans (“SIPs”), the Harris Corporation 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective August 27, 2010) and the Harris Corporation 2015 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2015 EIP”).
Grants of share-based awards after October 23, 2015 were made under our 2015 EIP.
We believe that share-based awards more closely align the interests of participants with those of shareholders.
Certain share-based awards provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change in control (as defined under our SIPs).
The compensation cost related to our share-based awards that was charged against income was $14 million and $43 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $13 million and $37 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
Awards granted to participants under our 2015 EIP during the quarter ended March 29, 2019 consisted of 1,044 restricted shares and restricted units.
There were no stock options or performance units granted during the quarter ended March 29, 2019.
Awards granted to participants under our 2015 EIP during the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 consisted of 270,963 stock options, 93,802 restricted shares and restricted units and 135,629 performance units.
The fair value as of the grant date of each stock option award was determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model and the following assumptions: expected dividend yield of 1.61 percent; expected volatility of 19.87 percent; risk-free interest rates averaging 2.72 percent; and expected term of 5.03 years.
The fair value as of the grant date of each restricted share award and restricted unit award was based on the closing price of our common stock on the grant date.
The fair value as of the grant date of each performance unit award was determined based on the fair value from a multifactor Monte Carlo valuation model that simulates our stock price and total shareholder return (“TSR”) relative to companies in our TSR peer group, less a discount to reflect the delay in payments of cash dividend-equivalents that are made only upon vesting.
Such charges include termination benefits, contract termination costs and costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees.
We record these charges at their fair value when incurred.
In cases where employees are required to render service until they are terminated in order to receive the termination benefits and will be retained beyond the minimum retention period, we record the expense ratably over the future service period.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, we recorded a $5 million charge for consolidation of certain Exelis Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Exelis”) facilities initiated in fiscal 2017.
The majority of the remaining liabilities at March 29, 2019 represent lease obligations associated with exited facilities with remaining terms of five years or less.
Note D — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 



The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Accumulated other comprehensive loss at June 29, 2018 reflects a reclassification to retained earnings of $35 million in stranded tax effects as a result of our adoption of an accounting standards update, including $30 million from “Unrecognized postretirement obligations, net of income taxes,” $4 million from “Net unrealized loss on hedging derivatives, net of income taxes” and $1 million from “Foreign currency translation, net of income taxes.” See Note 2: “Accounting Changes or Recent 



 10



Accounting Pronouncements” in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K for additional information regarding this accounting standards update.
Note E — Receivables 



Receivables are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We have a receivables sale agreement (“RSA”) with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time.
From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution.
Receivables sold pursuant to the RSA meet the requirements for sales accounting under ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, and, accordingly, are derecognized from our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at the time of sale.
Outstanding accounts receivable sold pursuant to the RSA were not material at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018.
Impairment losses related to receivables from contracts with customers were not material during the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.
Note F — Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities 



 Contract assets include unbilled amounts typically resulting from revenue recognized exceeding amounts billed to customers for contracts utilizing the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost revenue recognition method.
We bill customers as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals, upon achievement of contractual milestones or upon deliveries and, in certain arrangements, the customer may withhold payment of a small portion of the contract price until contract completion.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
The increase in contract liabilities in the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 was primarily due to an increase in the receipt of advance payments and the timing of contractual billing milestones.
Contract assets and contract liabilities are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_______________



(1)Represents the non-current portion of deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties, which is included as a component of the “Other long-term liabilities” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited).
The components of contract assets are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Impairment losses related to our contract assets were not material during the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.
For the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, we recognized revenue of $52 million and $259 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 29, 2018.
For the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, we recognized revenue of $24 million and $187 million, respectively, related to contract liabilities that were outstanding at June 30, 2017.
11



Note G — Inventories 



Inventories are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note H — Property, Plant and Equipment 



Property, plant and equipment are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, plant and equipment was $34 million and $102 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $33 million and $106 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
Deferred revenue associated with extended product warranties was $24 million at March 29, 2019 and $16 million at June 29, 2018.
12



Note J — Postretirement Benefit Plans 



The following tables provide the components of our net periodic benefit income for our defined benefit plans, including defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement defined benefit plans: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The service cost component of net periodic benefit income is included in the “Cost of product sales and services” and “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line items in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
The non-service cost components of net periodic pension income are included in the “Non-operating income” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
We contributed $301 million to our qualified defined benefit pensions plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, including a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans in the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
As a result of this voluntary contribution as well as a $400 million voluntary contribution made during fiscal 2017, we made no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, and we currently anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to a non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
The U.S.
Salaried Retirement Plan (“U.S.
SRP”), a U.S. qualified pension plan, is our largest defined benefit pension plan, with assets valued at $4.6 billion and a projected benefit obligation of $5.2 billion as of June 29, 2018.
Effective December 31, 2016, accruals under the U.S. SRP benefit formula were frozen for all employees and replaced with a 1% cash balance benefit formula for certain employees who were not highly compensated on December 31, 2016.
13



Note K — Income From Continuing Operations Per Share 



The computations of income from continuing operations per common share are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Potential dilutive common shares primarily consist of employee stock options and restricted and performance unit awards.
Income from continuing operations per diluted common share excludes the antidilutive impact of 265,652 and 275,021 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and 30,670 and 64,554 weighted average share-based awards outstanding for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
Effective Tax Rate



Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 14.1 percent in the quarter ended March 29, 2019 compared with 4.8 percent in the quarter ended March 30, 2018.
In the quarter ended March 30, 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from a $33 million ($.27 per diluted share) adjustment to the provisional amount recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to revalue our net deferred tax balances as a result of the Tax Act.
Our effective tax rate was 15.7 percent in the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 compared with 25.3 percent in the three quarters ended March 30, 2018.
In addition to the items noted above for the quarter ended March 29, 2019, our effective tax rate for the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 benefited from a reduction in the deferred tax liability maintained on the basis differences related to the unremitted foreign earnings and an increase in the research and development (“R&D”) credit.
14



Note M — Fair Value Measurements 



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal market (or most advantageous market, in the absence of a principal market) for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Entities are required to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in measuring fair value, and to utilize a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value.
The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are as follows:



•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable or are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other means.
In certain instances, fair value is estimated using quoted market prices obtained from external pricing services.
In obtaining such data from the external pricing services, we have evaluated the methodologies used to develop the estimate of fair value in order to assess whether such valuations are representative of fair value, including net asset value (“NAV”).
Additionally, in certain circumstances, the NAV reported by an asset manager may be adjusted when sufficient evidence indicates NAV is not representative of fair value.
Under these plans, participants designate investment options (including stock and fixed-income funds), which serve as the basis for measurement of the notional value of their accounts.
(3)See Note N — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in these Notes for additional information.
15



The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of our significant financial instruments that were not measured at fair value (carrying amounts of other financial instruments not listed in the table below approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of those items):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_______________  



(1)Fair value was estimated using a market approach based on quoted market prices for our debt traded in the secondary market.
Additionally, during January 2019, we entered into a yield-based treasury lock agreement with a third-party financial institution counterparty (“treasury lock”) to hedge against fluctuations in interest payments due to changes in the benchmark interest rate (10-year U.S. Treasury rate) associated with our anticipated issuance of long-term fixed-rate notes (“New Notes”) to redeem or repay at maturity the entire $400 million outstanding principal amount of our 2.7% Notes due April 27, 2020 (“2020 Notes”).
We use derivative instruments to manage our exposure to such risks and formally document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions.
We also may enter into derivative instruments that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting.
We recognize all derivatives in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at fair value.
At March 29, 2019, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $9 million, of which $5 million were classified as cash flow hedges and $4 million was classified as a fair value hedge.
This compares with open foreign currency forward contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $39 million at June 29, 2018, of which $35 million were classified as cash flow hedges and $4 million was classified as a fair value hedge.
At March 29, 2019, contract expiration dates ranged from 17 days to approximately 3 months with a weighted average contract life of 2 months.
At March 29, 2019, we also had an open treasury lock agreement with a notional amount of $400 million that was classified as a cash flow hedge.
Exchange-Rate Risk — Fair Value Hedges



We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge certain balance sheet items, including foreign currency denominated accounts receivable and inventory.
At March 29, 2019, we had an outstanding foreign currency forward contract denominated in the Canadian Dollar to hedge a certain balance sheet item.
The net gains or losses on foreign currency forward contracts designated as fair value hedges were not material in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.
In addition, no amounts were recognized in earnings in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018 related to hedged firm commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
Exchange-Rate Risk — Cash Flow Hedges



We use foreign currency forward contracts and options to hedge off-balance sheet future foreign currency commitments and also have hedged U.S. Dollar payments to suppliers to maintain our anticipated profit margins in our international operations.
At March 29, 2019, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts denominated in British Pounds and the Australian Dollar to hedge certain forecasted transactions.
The net gains or losses from cash flow hedges recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income, including gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material in the quarter or three quarters ended March 29, 2019 or in the quarter or three quarters ended March 30, 2018.
Interest-Rate Risk — Cash Flow Hedges 



As noted above, in anticipation of the issuance of the New Notes to redeem or repay at maturity the 2020 Notes, we entered into a treasury lock with a notional value of $400 million.
We designated the treasury lock as a cash flow hedge against fluctuations in interest payments on the New Notes due to changes in the benchmark interest rate prior to issuance, which we expect to occur between August 2019 and April 2020.
If the benchmark interest rate increases during the period of the agreement, the treasury lock position will become an asset and we will receive a cash payment from the counterparty when we terminate the treasury lock upon issuance of the New Notes.
Conversely, if the benchmark interest rate decreases, the treasury lock position will become a liability and we will make a cash payment to the counterparty when we terminate the treasury lock 



 16



upon issuance of the New Notes.
The fair value of the treasury lock is measured using a pricing model that utilizes observable market data such as the benchmark interest rate.
See Note M — Fair Value Measurements in these Notes for additional information.
At March 29, 2019, the fair value of the treasury lock was a liability of $11 million, which we recorded in the “Other accrued items” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) with a corresponding unrealized after-tax loss of $8 million in the “Accumulated other comprehensive loss” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) representing the effective portion of the treasury lock’s change in fair value during the quarter ended March 29, 2019.
The ineffective portion of the treasury lock’s change in fair value was immaterial during the quarter ended March 29, 2019.
Note O — Changes in Estimates 



Contract Estimates 



 Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on a contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and transaction price and the measurement of progress towards completion.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance and the risk and impact of delayed performance.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.
Net EAC adjustments resulting from changes in estimates impacted our operating income favorably by $6 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) and $5 million ($4 million after-tax or $.03 per diluted share) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and unfavorably by $4 million ($3 million after-tax or $.02 per diluted share) and $15 million ($11 million after-tax or $.09 per diluted share) for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in prior periods was $18 million and $34 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019, respectively, and $5 million and $35 million for the quarter and three quarters ended March 30, 2018, respectively.
Backlog comprises both funded backlog (i.e., firm orders for which funding is authorized and appropriated) and unfunded backlog.
Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts, such as indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contracts.
At March 29, 2019, our ending backlog was $8.5 billion.
We expect to recognize approximately half of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next twelve months and the substantial majority of the revenue associated with this backlog within the next 3 years.
Note Q — Business Segment Information 



We structure our operations primarily around the products, systems and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three reportable segments, which are also referred to as our business segments:



 17



•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 



•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“C4ISR”) solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and 



•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”), and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics.
Intersegment sales are generally transferred at cost to the buying segment, and the sourcing segment recognizes a profit that is eliminated.
The “Corporate eliminations” line item in the table below represents the elimination of intersegment sales.
The non-service components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs include interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of net actuarial gain.
18



Segment revenue, segment operating income and a reconciliation of segment operating income to total income from continuing operations before income taxes are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_______________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Disaggregation of Revenue



Communication Systems: Communication Systems operates principally on a “commercial” market-driven business model through which the business segment provides ready-to-ship commercial off-the-shelf products to customers in the U.S. and internationally.
Communication Systems revenue is primarily derived from fixed-price contracts and is generally recognized at the point in time when the product is received and accepted by the customer.
We disaggregate Communication Systems revenue by geographical region, as we believe this category best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of Communication Systems revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 19



Electronic Systems: Electronic Systems revenue is primarily derived from U.S. Government development and production contracts and is generally recognized over time using the POC cost-to-cost method.
We disaggregate Electronic Systems revenue by customer relationship, contract type and geographical region.
Space and Intelligence Systems: Space and Intelligence Systems revenue is primarily derived from U.S. Government development and production contracts and is generally recognized over time using the POC cost-to-cost method.
We disaggregate Space and Intelligence Systems revenue by customer relationship, contract type and geographical region.
Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred.
Merger Litigation 



In connection with our pending merger with L3 (see Note S — Pending Merger in these Notes for additional information), two putative class action lawsuits and one individual lawsuit were filed against L3 and its directors (together, the “L3 Parties”) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York between December 19, 2018 and January 15, 2019, and a third putative class action lawsuit, Kent v. L3 Technologies, Inc., et al., was filed against the L3 Parties and Harris Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, Leopard Merger Sub Inc. (Harris Corporation and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., the “Harris Parties”), in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware on January 4, 2019.
The complaint in the Kent lawsuit further alleged that the Harris Parties were liable for these violations as “controlling persons” of L3 within the meaning of federal securities laws.
On March 12, 2019, the parties to the actions entered into an agreement to settle all claims that were or could have been alleged in the action subject to, among other things, the supplementation by L3 of certain disclosures contained in the registration statement, which were reflected in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by L3 with the SEC on March 13, 2019, and the dismissal of the four lawsuits, all of which were dismissed by March 18, 2019.
Environmental Matters 



We are subject to numerous U.S. Federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulatory requirements and are involved from time to time in investigations or litigation of various potential environmental issues.
These sites are in various stages of investigation and/or remediation and in some cases our liability is considered de minimis.
Notices from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) or equivalent state or international environmental agencies allege that a number of sites formerly or currently owned and/or operated by us or companies we have acquired, and other properties or water supplies that may be or have been impacted from those operations, contain disposed or recycled materials or wastes and require environmental investigation and/or remediation.
These sites include instances of being identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly 



 21



known as the “Superfund Act”) and/or equivalent state and international laws.
For example, in June 2014, the U.S. Department of Justice (the “DOJ”), Environment and Natural Resources Division, notified several potentially responsible parties, including Exelis, of potential responsibility for contribution to the environmental investigation and remediation of multiple locations in Alaska.
In addition, in March 2016, the EPA notified over 100 potentially responsible parties, including Exelis, of potential liability for the cost of remediation for the 8.3-mile stretch of the Lower Passaic River, estimated by the EPA to be $1.38 billion, but the parties’ respective allocations have not been determined.
Note S — Pending Merger 



On October 14, 2018, we announced that on October 12, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), with L3 and Leopard Merger Sub Inc., our wholly owned subsidiary (“Merger Sub”), pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals.
Under the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, L3 shareholders will receive a fixed exchange ratio of 1.30 shares of Harris common stock for each share of L3 common stock.
Upon closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Harris Corporation will be re-named “L3 Harris Technologies, Inc.” and Merger Sub will merge with and into L3, with L3 being the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of L3 Harris Technologies, Inc. (“L3 Harris”), which will be owned on a fully diluted basis approximately 54 percent by Harris shareholders and 46 percent by L3 shareholders.
Upon closing, the merger will be accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, and Harris will be treated as the accounting acquirer.
The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by the Board of Directors of each company.
The consummation of the merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including, among others, the expiration or earlier termination of any applicable waiting period and the receipt of approvals under domestic and certain foreign antitrust and competition laws, including the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”).
In connection with the proposed merger, we and L3 each filed a Notification and Report Form under the HSR Act (an “HSR Notification”) with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the DOJ on November 9, 2018.
We voluntarily withdrew our HSR Notification effective as of December 10, 2018 and re-filed our HSR Notification on December 11, 2018.
As part of the DOJ’s review of the merger, we and L3 each received on January 10, 2019 a request for additional information and documentary materials (the “Second Request”) from the DOJ, which extends the waiting period under the HSR Act until 30 days after both we and L3 have complied with the Second Request or such later time as the parties may agree with the DOJ, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier.
We and L3 continue to work cooperatively with the DOJ on its review of the merger.
We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing.
See Note T — Subsequent Events in these Notes for subsequent events disclosures associated with the merger.
L3 is a prime contractor in intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment and security and detection systems headquartered in New York, New York.
L3 is also a provider of a broad range of communication, electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms.
L3 generated calendar 2018 revenue of approximately $10 billion.
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby is not complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 12, 2018, by and among L3, us, and Merger Sub, a copy of which was filed as an exhibit to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 16, 2018.
22



Note T — Subsequent Events 



On April 4, 2019, at our and L3’s respective special meetings of stockholders to vote on the proposals identified in the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the SEC on February 25, 2019 in connection with the Merger Agreement, our and L3’s respective stockholders voted to approve all proposals necessary to complete the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement.
Also on April 4, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will sell our Night Vision business to Elbit Systems of America, LLC, a subsidiary of Elbit Systems Ltd., for $350 million in cash, subject to customary purchase price adjustments as set forth in the definitive agreement.
The sale transaction is conditioned on completion of our pending merger with L3 pursuant to the Merger Agreement, as well as customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals.
We expect to use the proceeds from the sale of our Night Vision business to pre-fund L3 Harris pension plans and return cash to shareholders.
Our Night Vision business is a global supplier of high-performance, vision-enhancing products for U.S. and allied military and security forces and commercial customers.
Because the sale transaction is conditioned on completion of our pending merger with L3, the assets and liabilities of our Night Vision business were not classified as held for sale in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet (Unaudited) at March 29, 2019.
23



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 



To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Harris Corporation



Results of Review of Interim Financial Statements 



We have reviewed the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet of Harris Corporation (the Company) as of March 29, 2019, the related condensed consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, and equity for the quarter and three quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three quarters ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “condensed consolidated interim financial statements”).
In our opinion, the information set forth in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2018, is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated balance sheet from which it has been derived.
Basis for Review Results 



These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
We conducted our review in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
A review of interim financial statements consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters.
It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as a whole.
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP



Orlando, Florida



May 2, 2019 



 24
