Item 2.
OVERVIEW



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards and in Note B — Business Combination in the Notes, we completed the L3Harris Merger on June 29, 2019, the day after Harris’ fiscal 2019 ended and the first day of the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
As described in more detail in Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes, we completed the sale of the Harris Night Vision business on September 13, 2019 pursuant to a definitive agreement we entered as part of the regulatory process in connection with the L3Harris Merger.
As discussed in Note X — Business Segment Information in the Notes, we implemented a new organizational structure effective on June 29, 2019, which resulted in changes to our operating segments, which are also reportable segments and referred to as our business segments.
As a result of these changes, we report the financial results of our operations in the following four business segments:



•Integrated Mission Systems, including ISR; advanced electro-optical and infrared solutions; and maritime power and navigation;



•Space and Airborne Systems, including space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions; classified intelligence and cyber defense; avionics; and electronic warfare;



•Communication Systems, including tactical communications; broadband communications; night vision; and public safety; and



•Aviation Systems, including defense aviation products; security, detection and other commercial aviation products; air traffic management; and commercial and military pilot training.
See Note X — Business Segment Information in the Notes for further information regarding our business segments, including how we define segment operating income or loss.
As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year will end on the Friday nearest December 31, and the period commencing on June 29, 2019 will be the Fiscal Transition Period.
We will file a transition report on Form 10-KT containing audited financial statements for the Fiscal Transition Period.
32



As described in more detail in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes and in Note Q — Leases in the Notes, effective June 29, 2019 we adopted ASC 842, a new lease standard that supersedes existing lease guidance under GAAP.
This standard requires, among other things, the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for most lease arrangements and disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Because the L3Harris Merger occurred on June 29, 2019, the quarter ended September 27, 2019 reflects the results of the combined company, while the quarter ended September 28, 2018 reflects the results of only Harris operating businesses.
Due to the significance of the L3 operating businesses included in the combined company results following the L3Harris Merger, the reported results for the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018 generally are not comparable.
Therefore, to assist with a discussion of the September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018 consolidated results of operations on a more comparable basis, certain supplemental unaudited pro forma combined income statement information prepared in accordance with the requirements of Article 11 of Regulation S-X (referred to in this MD&A as “pro forma”) also is provided (see “Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement Information” below in this MD&A).
Highlights



Consolidated operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019, in each case compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 on both an “as reported” basis (reflecting the results of only Harris operating businesses for the prior period) and a “pro forma” basis (also reflecting the results of L3 operating businesses for the prior period), included:



Consolidated — as reported[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Consolidated — pro forma[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•Gross margin was comparable at $1.19 billion for both periods;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 33



Consolidated Results of Operations



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



_______________



* Not meaningful



As Reported



Revenue



The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of $2.67 billion of revenue (net of intercompany sales eliminations) from L3 operations in operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and organic revenue growth in our Space and Airborne Systems and Communication Systems segments.
See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.
34



Gross Margin



The increase in gross margin for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in operating results for the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold and a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower gross margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
See the “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” discussion below in this MD&A for further information.
Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses



 The increases in Engineering, Selling and Administrative (“ESA”) expenses and ESA expense as a percentage of total revenue (“ESA percentage”) for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in operating results and $281 million of charges for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
ESA expenses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 also included a $12 million gain on sale of a product line, offset by a $12 million non-cash cumulative adjustment to lease expense.
See the “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” discussion below in this MD&A for further information.
Gain (loss) on Sales of Businesses



 The increase in gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was due to a $229 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, which was completed on September 13, 2019.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes for further information.
Non-Operating Income 



The increase in non-operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to an increase in the non-service cost components of pension and other postretirement benefit plan income, reflecting the inclusion in pension and other postretirement benefit plan income of benefit plans assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger.
See Note R — Non-Operating Income and Note N — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information.
Net Interest Expense



The increase in net interest expense in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher average debt levels as a result of the assumption of $3.5 billion of debt in connection with the L3Harris Merger.
See Note M — Debt in the Notes and Note 13: “Debt” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K for further information.
Income Taxes



Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 1.1 percent for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with 16.0 percent for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, the ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards with a full valuation allowance against capital gains generated from the Harris Night Vision business divestiture, and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to statute of limitations expirations.
Income From Continuing Operations



The increase in income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “As Reported” discussion regarding the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
35



Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share Attributable to L3Harris Technologies, Inc. Common Shareholders



The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share attributable to L3Harris Technologies, Inc. common shareholders for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations, as discussed above, partially offset by an increase in our diluted weighted average common shares outstanding as a result of approximately 104 million shares issued in connection with L3Harris Merger.
See “Common Stock Repurchases” below in this MD&A for information regarding our new share repurchase program.
Pro Forma



Revenue



The increase in revenue for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma revenue for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in our Space and Airborne Systems segment, reflecting growth in the Avionics and Space businesses, and higher revenue in our Integrated Mission Systems and Communication Systems segments.
Gross Margin



The slight increase in gross margin and decrease in gross margin percentage for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the pro forma gross margin and pro forma gross margin percentage for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to $92 million of additional cost of sales related to the fair value step-up in inventory sold in the quarter ended September 27, 2019, partially offset by higher volume and strong operational performance.
Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses



The increases in ESA expenses and ESA percentage for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma ESA expense and pro forma ESA percentage for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to $281 million of charges for integration, restructuring and other costs associated with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019, partially offset by integration savings.
Gain (loss) on Sales of Businesses



 The increase in gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma gain (loss) on sales of businesses for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was due to a $229 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, which was completed on September 13, 2019.
See Note C — Business Divestitures and Asset Sales in the Notes for further information.
Non-Operating Income 



The increase in non-operating income for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma non-operating income for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a $21 million debt extinguishment loss recognized by L3 in the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
Net Interest Expense



The decrease in net interest expense for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma net interest expense for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to lower average debt levels as a result of the repayment at maturity of the entire outstanding $300 million aggregate principal amount of our Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019.
See Note 13: “Debt” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K for further information.
Income Taxes



Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 1.1 percent for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with a 10.6 percent pro forma effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 benefited from the favorable impact of excess tax benefits related to equity-based compensation, the ability to utilize capital loss carryforwards with a full valuation allowance against capital gains generated from the Harris Night Vision business divestiture, and the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to statute of limitations expirations.
See “Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma combined Income Statement Information” below in this MD&A for information regarding our pro forma effective tax rate for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
36



Income From Continuing Operations



The increase in income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Pro Forma” discussion regarding the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share Attributable to L3Harris Common Shareholders



The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share attributable to L3Harris common shareholders for the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with pro forma income from continuing operations per diluted common share for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations, as discussed above.
37



Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Income Statement Information 



The following supplemental unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement information prepared in accordance with the requirements of Article 11 of Regulation S-X provides further information supporting the preparation of the supplemental unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 provided above in the “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion in this MD&A and has been prepared to give effect to the L3Harris Merger under the acquisition method of accounting.
The adjustments include adjustments to reflect the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, which is directly attributable to the L3Harris Merger, but do not include any adjustments for the use of proceeds from such sale, because the use is not directly attributable to the L3Harris Merger.
The supplemental unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement information should be read in conjunction with other sections of this MD&A, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report.
38



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Notes:



a.Reflects the elimination of intercompany balances and transactions between L3 and Harris.
b.Reflects the sale of the Harris Night Vision business.
39



c.Reflects the net increase in amortization expense related to the fair value of acquired finite-lived identifiable intangible assets and the elimination of historical amortization expense recognized by L3 for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
Assumptions and details are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



d.Represents elimination of $2 million accrual of transaction costs at September 28, 2018, which were included in merger, acquisition and divestiture related expenses in L3’s historical statement of operations for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.



e.In connection with the L3Harris Merger, on October 12, 2018, each company entered into a letter agreement with its chief executive officer, to outline the terms of each such person’s role and compensation arrangements following the merger.
Amounts shown reflect the increase in compensation expense as a result of these modified arrangements.
f.Reflects the impact of change-in-control payments under certain post-retirement and share-based and deferred compensation arrangements.
g.Reflects the elimination of amortization of net actuarial losses from accumulated comprehensive loss related to L3's postretirement benefit plans as part of purchase accounting.
h.Reflects the elimination of amortization of deferred debt issuance costs as part of purchase accounting.
i.Reflects amortization of the increase to L3’s long-term debt based on a $172 million fair value adjustment.
j.Certain amounts from L3’s historical statement of operations data were reclassified to conform their presentation to that of Harris.
These reclassifications include:



1.Merger, acquisition and divestiture related expenses of $5 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were reclassified to engineering, selling and administrative expenses.
2.Loss on sale of the Crestview Aerospace and TCS businesses of $4 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was reclassified to loss on sale of businesses.
3.Interest and other income, net of $15 million, of which $5 million was reclassified to interest income and $10 million was reclassified to non-operating income for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
4.Debt retirement charges of $21 million for the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was reclassified to non-operating income



k.Represents the income tax impact of the pro forma adjustments, using the blended worldwide tax rates for L3, in the case of pro forma adjustments to L3’s historical results, and the federal and state statutory tax rates for Harris, in the case of pro forma adjustments to Harris’ historical results.
As a result, the combined statutory tax rate used to tax-effect the pro forma adjustments was approximately 23 percent for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
l.Increase in common stock due to shares of L3Harris common stock issued for L3 common stock, L3 restricted stock units and L3 performance stock units.
Diluted shares also include the dilutive impact of L3Harris stock options issued for L3 stock options calculated using the treasury stock method.
40



Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations



Integrated Mission Systems



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________



*Not meaningful



The changes in segment revenue, operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
Because the Integrated Mission Systems segment is almost entirely comprised of L3 businesses, comparison to prior year segment operating metrics is not meaningful.
In the quarter ended September 27, 2019, segment revenue benefited from growth in ISR missionization and increased demand from the U.S. Government for Wescam turret systems.
Space and Airborne Systems



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 and revenue growth in the Avionics and Space businesses.
Segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 was comparable with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 reflecting integration savings, offset by a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage.
Communication Systems



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019, $66 million of higher revenue in Tactical Communications, reflecting increased U.S. DoD modernization and European demand, and $16 million of higher revenue in the Public Safety business.
The decrease in segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage, partially offset by strong operational performance.
41



Aviation Systems



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________



*Not meaningful



The changes in segment revenue and operating income in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 were primarily due to the inclusion of L3 operations in segment operating results as a result of the L3Harris Merger during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
Because the Aviation Systems segment is primarily comprised of L3 businesses, comparison to certain prior year segment operating metrics is not meaningful.
In the quarter ended September 27, 2019, segment revenue also reflected increased demand for fuzing and ordnance products in Defense Aviation Products, offset by a decline in comparative revenue in Commercial Training Solutions and the competitive loss of the U.S. Air Force C-17 contract.
The slight decrease in segment operating margin percentage in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a mix of program revenue and product sales with relatively lower operating margin percentage, partially offset by improved operational performance.
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES



Cash Flows



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash and cash equivalents



The $471 million net increase in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2019 to the end of the quarter ended September 27, 2019 was primarily due to:



•$1,132 million of net cash received from the L3Harris Merger;



•$346 million of net proceeds from the sale the Harris Night Vision business;



•$95 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options; and



•$81 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by



•$750 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; 



•$177 million used to pay cash dividends;



•$97 million of net repayments of borrowings; and



•$84 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.
The $17 million net increase in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2018 to the end of the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to:



 42



•$216 million of net proceeds from borrowings (primarily under our commercial paper program); and



•$117 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by



•$200 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; 



•$82 million used to pay cash dividends; and



•$31 million used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.
At September 27, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.0 billion, and we have a senior unsecured $2 billion revolving credit facility that expires in June 2024 (all of which was available to us as of September 27, 2019).
Additionally, we had $7.0 billion of long-term debt outstanding at September 27, 2019, the majority of which was assumed in connection with the L3Harris Merger in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 or was incurred in connection with our acquisition of Exelis Inc. in fiscal 2015.
Our $1.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents at September 27, 2019 included $233 million held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $155 million was considered permanently reinvested.
Determining the future tax cost of repatriating such funds to the U.S. is not practical at this time.
However, we have no current plans to repatriate the funds.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
We also currently believe that existing cash, funds generated from operations, our credit facility and access to the public and private debt and equity markets will be sufficient to provide for our anticipated working capital requirements, capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program and repayments of our debt securities at maturity for the next 12 months and the reasonably foreseeable future thereafter.
Our total capital expenditures for the Fiscal Transition Period are expected to be approximately $190 million.
We anticipate tax payments in the Fiscal Transition Period to be approximately equal to or marginally less than our tax expense for the same period, subject to adjustment for certain timing differences.
Other than those cash outlays noted in “Contractual Obligations” in Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K and in the “Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations” section below in this MD&A (including repayment at maturity of the entire $400 million principal amount of our 2.700% Notes due April 27, 2020 and $250 million of our Floating Rate Notes due April 30, 2020), capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program, L3Harris Merger-related integration and other costs and cash payments to counterparties upon termination of yield-based treasury lock agreements (see Note U — Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities in the Notes for additional information regarding derivative instruments), we do not anticipate any significant cash outlays during the the next 12 months.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Net cash provided by operating activities: The $36 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to $302 million of cash used to make voluntary pension contributions, $319 million of cash used to fund L3Harris Merger integration and transaction cost payments, including restructuring and change-in-control payments under certain postretirement and deferred compensation plans, mostly offset by the inclusion of cash flows from L3 operations, earnings growth and a decrease in cash used to fund working capital.
Net cash used in investing activities: The $1.45 billion increase in net cash provided by investing activities in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to $1.13 billion of net cash received from the L3Harris Merger and $346 million of net proceeds from the sale of the Harris Night Vision business, partially offset by a $53 million increase in cash used for net additions of property, plant and equipment.
Net cash used in financing activities: The $945 million increase in net cash used in financing activities in the quarter ended September 27, 2019 compared with the quarter ended September 28, 2018 was primarily due to a $550 million increase in cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock, $213 million less net proceeds from borrowings and $100 million more cash used for repayment of borrowings.
43



Funding of Pension Plans



Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds.
With respect to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.
The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020.
We made a voluntary contributions of $302 million to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans during the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
As a result, we currently do not anticipate making any contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and we anticipate making only minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plans during the remainder of the Fiscal Transition Period.
Future required contributions primarily will depend on the actual annual return on assets and the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation at the end of each year.
Depending on these factors, and the resulting funded status of our pension plans, the level of future statutory required minimum contributions could be material.
We had net unfunded defined benefit plan obligations of $2.1 billion at September 27, 2019.
See Note 14: “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements filed in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K and Note N — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information regarding our pension plans.
Common Stock Repurchases 



During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, we used $750 million to repurchase 3,582,500 shares of our common stock under our 2019 Repurchase Program (as defined below) at an average price per share of $209.40, including commissions of $.02 per share.
During the quarter ended September 28, 2018, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our prior repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share.
During the quarters ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018, $83 million and $18 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards.
Shares purchased by us are canceled and retired.
As of September 27, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $3.2 billion under our 2019 Repurchase Program.
On July 1, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $4 billion share repurchase authorization (“2019 Repurchase Program”).
The 2019 Repurchase Program replaced our prior share repurchase program, which had a remaining unused authorization of approximately $501 million, as well as L3’s prior share repurchase program.
Although the 2019 Repurchase Program does not have a stated expiration date, we announced that we expect to repurchase up to $2.5 billion in shares during the twelve months ended July 1, 2020, but we can give no assurance regarding the level and timing of share repurchases.
At September 27, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $3.2 billion under our 2019 Repurchase Program.
Repurchases under the 2019 Repurchase Program may be made through open-market transactions, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
Additional information regarding our 2019 Repurchase Program is set forth in this Report under Part II.
Item 2.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.” 



Dividends



On June 29, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.685 per share to $.75 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $3.00 per share, which was our eighteenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
The new dividend rate of $.75 per share is effective for dividends declared during the Fiscal Transition Period ending January 3, 2020 and we expect to assess our future dividend rate during the first quarter of calendar year 2020.
Our annualized cash dividend rate for fiscal 2019 was $2.74 per share.
Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December.
We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends.
44



Capital Structure and Resources



2019 Credit Agreement: We have a $2 billion, 5-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2019 Credit Facility”) under a Revolving Credit Agreement (the “2019 Credit Agreement”) entered into on June 28, 2019 with a syndicate of lenders.
For a description of the 2019 Credit Facility and the 2019 Credit Agreement, see Note 12: “Credit Arrangements” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K.



We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2019 Credit Agreement at September 27, 2019, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2019 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
At September 27, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2019 Credit Agreement.
Exchange Offer: In connection with the L3Harris Merger, on May 30, 2019, we commenced offers to eligible holders to exchange any and all outstanding 4.950% Senior Notes due 2021, 3.850% Senior Notes due 2023, 3.950% Senior Notes due 2024, 3.850% Senior Notes due 2026 and 4.400% Senior Notes due 2028 issued by L3 for up to $3.35 billion aggregate principal amount of new notes issued by L3Harris and cash.
On July 2, 2019, we settled the debt exchange offer.
See Note M — Debt in the Notes for additional information.
Long-Term Debt: For a description of our long-term variable-rate and fixed-rate debt, see Note M — Debt in the Notes.
Short-Term Debt: Our short-term debt at September 27, 2019 and June 28, 2019 was $3 million and $103 million, respectively.
Our short-term debt at September 27, 2019 consisted of local borrowing by international subsidiaries for working capital needs.
Our short-term debt at June 28, 2019 consisted of commercial paper and local borrowing by international subsidiaries for working capital needs.
Our commercial paper program was supported at September 27, 2019 and June 28, 2019 by the 2019 Credit Facility.
Other Agreements: We have a RSA with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $100 million of outstanding receivables at any given time.
From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution and which we account for as sales of receivables with sale proceeds included in net cash from operating activities.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



In accordance with the definition under SEC rules, any of the following qualify as off-balance sheet arrangements:



•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;



•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or R&D services with the registrant.
As of September 27, 2019, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above.
We have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses and assets.
In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.
45



Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations 



The amounts disclosed in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K include our contractual obligations and commercial commitments.
Except for changes in our debt as described under “Capital Structure and Resources” in this MD&A as well as other changes resulting from the L3Harris Merger, no material changes occurred during the quarter ended September 27, 2019 in our contractual cash obligations to repay debt, to purchase goods and services, to make payments under operating leases or our commercial commitments, or in our contingent liabilities on outstanding surety bonds, standby letters of credit or other arrangements as disclosed in our Fiscal 2019 Form 10-K. 



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These estimates and assumptions are affected by the application of our accounting policies.
Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
Critical accounting policies and estimates for us include: (i) revenue recognition on contracts and contract estimates, (ii) postretirement benefit plans, (iii) provisions for excess and obsolete inventory losses, (iv) impairment testing of goodwill, (v) accounting for business combinations and (vi) income taxes and tax valuation allowances.
For additional discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized over time, typically using the percentage of completion (“POC”) cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, whereby we measure our progress towards completion of performance obligations based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated total cost at completion under the contract.
Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on a contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and transaction price as well as measurement of progress towards completion.
Due to the long-term nature of many of our contracts, developing the estimated total cost at completion and total transaction price often requires judgment.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include: the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance and the risk and impact of delayed performance.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard Estimate at Completion (“EAC”) process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.
46



EAC adjustments resulted in the following impacts to operating income for the periods presented: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



There were no individual impacts to operating income due to EAC adjustments in the quarters ended September 27, 2019 or September 28, 2018 that were material to our results of operations on a consolidated or segment basis for such periods.
We recognize revenue from numerous contracts with multiple performance obligations.
For these contracts, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.
The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as bundled sale with any other products or services).
These contracts are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulations and the prices of our contract deliverables are typically based on our estimated or actual costs plus a reasonable profit margin.
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
In our non-U.S. Government contracts, when standalone selling prices are not directly observable, we also generally use the expected cost plus a margin approach to determine standalone selling price.
In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available.
Postretirement Benefit Plans



As part of our accounting for the L3Harris Merger, we completed a valuation and re-measurement of all L3 pension and other postretirement benefit (“OPEB”) plans as of the Closing Date and we recorded a $233 million increase to L3’s pension and OPEB liability as of June 29, 2019 based on the results of this valuation.
The total L3 pension and OPEB liability assumed by L3Harris was $1.4 billion at the Closing Date.
The discount rate assumption used was a yield curve rather than a single interest rate.
For the pension plans, the average June 29, 2019 discount rate used was 3.54 percent for U.S. plans and 2.95 percent for Canadian plans.
For OPEB plans, the average June 29, 2019 discount rate used was 3.31 percent for U.S. plans and 2.92 percent for Canadian plans.
The long‐term expected rate of return on plan assets for the Fiscal Transition Period is 7.75 percent for the majority of our postretirement benefit plans.
Accounting for Business Combinations



We follow the acquisition method of accounting to record identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests in the acquiree recognized in connection with acquired businesses at their estimated fair value as of the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets from business combinations are recognized at their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition and generally consist of customer relationships, trade names, developed technology and IPR&D.
We determine the fair value of intangible assets based on estimates and judgments, including the timing and amount of expected future cash flows, long-term growth rates and discount rates.
Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment testing.
Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized to expense over their useful lives, generally ranging from three to twenty years.
The preliminary estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired in connection with the L3Harris Merger was approximately $6.8 billion.
We assess the recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
We evaluate the recoverability of such assets based on the expectations of undiscounted cash flows of the assets.
If the sum of expected future undiscounted cash flows were less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss would be recognized for the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount.
See Note B — Business Combination and Note K — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for additional information.
47



Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards



Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit and the national debt, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to shut down or operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress and the Executive Branch may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
•Disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.
•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
•We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the L3Harris Merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.
We may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the businesses.
•We have incurred and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the L3Harris Merger.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
