PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
General.
We record accruals for losses related to those matters against us that we consider to be probable and that can be reasonably estimated.
Gain contingencies, if any, are recognized when they are realized and legal costs generally are expensed when incurred.
Based on available information, in the opinion of management, settlements, arbitration awards and final judgments, if any, that are considered probable of being rendered against us in litigation or arbitration in existence at March 30, 2018 are reserved against or would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the authorities or ultimately through legal proceedings.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
We face the risk, as does any company, of a security breach, whether through cyber attack or cyber intrusion over the Internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons inside our organization or with access to systems inside our organization, or other significant disruption of our IT networks and related systems or those of our suppliers or subcontractors.
We face an added risk of a security breach or other significant disruption of the IT networks and related systems that we develop, install, operate and maintain for certain of our customers, which may involve managing and protecting information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions or personally identifiable or protected health information.
The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, is persistent and substantial as the volume, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world remain elevated and unlikely to diminish.
As an advanced technology-based solutions provider, and particularly as a government contractor, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption from threats to gain unauthorized access to our and our customers’ proprietary or classified information on our IT networks and related systems and to the IT networks and related systems that we operate and maintain for certain of our customers.
These types of information and IT networks and related systems are critical to the operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations, and, in some cases, are critical to the operations of certain of our customers.
We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of information and IT networks and related systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption.
Our efforts and measures have not been entirely effective in the case of every cyber security incident, but no incident has had a material negative impact on us to date.
Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because attempted security breaches, particularly cyber attacks and intrusions, or disruptions will occur in the future, and because the techniques used in such attempts are constantly evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected.
In some cases, the resources of foreign governments may be behind such attacks due to the nature of our business 



 38



and the industries in which we operate.
Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures.
Thus, it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk, and there can be no assurance that future cyber security incidents will not have a material negative impact on us.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we repurchased 312,902 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program for $47 million at an average price per share of $150.07.
The timing, volume and nature of repurchases are subject to market conditions, applicable securities laws and other factors and are at our discretion and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Shares repurchased by us are cancelled and retired.
The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases by us of our common stock during the third quarter of fiscal 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Periods represent our fiscal months.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(2)Represents a combination of (a) shares of our common stock delivered to us in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligation of holders of performance units, restricted units or restricted shares that vested during the quarter and (b) performance units, restricted units or restricted shares returned to us upon retirement or employment termination of employees.
Our equity incentive plans provide that the value of shares delivered to us to pay the exercise price of options or to cover tax withholding obligations shall be the closing price of our common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs.
39



Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities



During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we did not issue or sell any unregistered equity securities.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
Not Applicable.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not Applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Not Applicable.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
EXHIBIT INDEX



The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference to exhibits previously filed with the SEC:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



*Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement



 40
