Item 2.
OVERVIEW



The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to assist in an understanding of our financial condition and results of operations.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes appearing elsewhere in this Report (the “Notes”).
In addition, reference should be made to our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7.
•Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Strategies — an analysis of cash flows, funding of pension plans, common stock repurchases, dividends, capital structure and resources, off-balance sheet arrangements and commercial commitments and contractual obligations.
We report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following three segments, which are also referred to as our business segments:



•Communication Systems, serving markets in tactical communications and defense products, including tactical ground and airborne radio communications solutions and night vision technology, and in public safety networks; 



•Electronic Systems, providing electronic warfare, avionics, and C4ISR solutions for defense and classified customers and mission-critical communication systems for civil and military aviation and other customers; and



•Space and Intelligence Systems, providing intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, PNT, and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics.
As described in more detail in the Adoption of New Accounting Standards section in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, effective June 30, 2018, we adopted ASC 606, a new revenue recognition standard that supersedes nearly all revenue recognition guidance under GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and supersedes some cost guidance for construction-type and production-type contracts.
Effective June 30, 2018, we also adopted ASU 2017-07, which changed the presentation of components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs other than the service cost component in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited).
The classification of certain prior-period amounts has been adjusted in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) to conform with current-period classifications.
Reclassifications include certain direct selling and bid and proposal costs from the “Cost of product sales and services” line item to the “Engineering, selling and administrative expenses” line item in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited) and in the Notes.
As described in more detail in Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes, we entered into the Merger Agreement with L3 and Merger Sub on October 12, 2018, pursuant to which we and L3 have agreed to combine in an all-stock merger of equals.
We and L3 continue to expect the merger to close in the previously announced time frame of mid-calendar year 2019, although we can give no assurances regarding the timing or occurrence of closing.
Amounts contained in this Report may not always add to totals due to rounding.
25



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



Highlights



Operations results for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, in each case compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018, included:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net cash provided by operating activities increased 280 percent to $874 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 from $230 million in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018.
Consolidated Results of Operations



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The increase in revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was due to higher revenue in all three of our segments.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The increase in revenue in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was due to higher revenue in all three of our segments.
26



See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.
Gross Margin



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The increase in gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three of our segments.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The increase in gross margin in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher revenue in all three of our segments.
See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.
Engineering, Selling and Administrative Expenses 



 Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The decreases in engineering, selling and administrative (“ESA”) expenses and ESA expenses as a percentage of total revenue (“ESA percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the absence of $45 million of charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by $16 million of L3 merger-related transaction and integration costs and increased investments in bids and proposals and R&D in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The slight increase in ESA expenses in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $29 million of L3 merger-related transaction and integration costs and increased investments in bids and proposals and R&D, partially offset by $45 million of charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The decrease in ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to management of expenses on higher revenue.
See “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” below in this MD&A for further information.
Non-Operating Income 



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: Non-operating income in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The slight increase in non-operating income in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase in the non-service cost components of pension income and a debt extinguishment loss recognized in the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
See Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes for further information.
Income Taxes



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: Our effective tax rate (income taxes as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income taxes) was 14.1 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with 4.8 percent in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018, our effective tax rate benefited from a $33 million adjustment to the provisional amount recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to revalue our net deferred tax balances as a result of the Tax Act.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: Our effective tax rate was 15.7 percent in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with 25.3 percent in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018.
In addition to the items noted above for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, our effective tax rate for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 benefited from a reduction in the deferred tax liability maintained on the basis differences related to the unremitted foreign earnings and an increase in R&D credit.
27



Income From Continuing Operations



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The increase in income from continuing operations in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The increase in income from continuing operations in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the combined effects of the reasons noted above in this “Consolidated Results of Operations” discussion regarding the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Income From Continuing Operations Per Diluted Common Share



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and fewer diluted weighted average common shares outstanding due to repurchases of shares of common stock under our repurchase program during the last quarter of fiscal 2018 and first quarter of fiscal 2019.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The increase in income from continuing operations per diluted common share in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
See “Common Stock Repurchases” below in this MD&A for further information.
Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations



Communication Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The increase in segment revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $66 million of higher revenue from Tactical Communications, reflecting a ramp in U.S. Department of Defense modernization programs, and higher revenue in Public Safety and Professional Communications due to increased demand from state and federal agencies.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher volume and operational efficiencies, partially offset by program and product mix.
Segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue (“gross margin percentage”) decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to program and product mix.
The decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected management of expenses on higher revenue.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating income as a percentage of revenue (“operating margin percentage”) in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
On April 4, 2019, we entered into a definitive agreement under which we will sell our Night Vision business.
See Note T — Subsequent Events in the Notes for additional information.
28



First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The increase in segment revenue in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $136 million higher revenue from Tactical Communications and higher revenue in Public Safety and Professional Communications and Night Vision.
The increase in segment gross margin, decrease in segment gross margin percentage and decreases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Electronic Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The increase in segment revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $78 million of higher revenue from growth in avionics, release systems and electronic warfare on long-term platforms, including F-35, F/A-18 and F-16, partially offset by lower revenue from the conclusion of certain Mission Networks programs and the timing of the transition of the United Arab Emirates (“UAE”) integrated battle management system program from a start-up to a full capability phase.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher segment revenue.
The increase in segment gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to operational performance.
The increase in segment ESA expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to increased investments in bids and proposals and R&D.
Segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The increase in segment revenue in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $166 million of higher revenue from growth in avionics, release systems and electronic warfare on long-term platforms, including F-35, F/A-18 and F-16, partially offset by lower revenue from the timing of the transition of the UAE integrated battle management system program from a start-up to a full capability phase.
The increase in segment gross margin in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher segment revenue, favorable mix and productivity savings.
The increase in segment gross margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to favorable mix and productivity savings.
The increase in segment ESA expenses in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Segment ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018.
The increases in segment operating income and segment operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
29



Space and Intelligence Systems Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The increase in segment revenue in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $45 million of higher revenue from classified programs, driven by exquisite systems, next generation technology and small satellites, partially offset by lower revenue from environmental programs.
The increase in segment gross margin in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher segment revenue.
The increase in segment gross margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to improved program execution.
The increases in segment ESA expenses and segment ESA percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to increased investments in bids and proposals and R&D.
The increase in segment operating income and comparability of segment operating margin percentage in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The increase in segment revenue in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $136 million of higher revenue from classified programs, partially offset by lower revenue from environmental programs.
The increases in segment gross margin, segment gross margin percentage and segment ESA expenses in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 were primarily due to the same reasons noted above regarding this segment for the third quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Segment ESA percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 was comparable with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018.
The increase in segment operating income and slight decrease of segment operating margin percentage in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 reflected the combined effects of the items discussed above regarding this segment for the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
Unallocated Corporate Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The decrease in unallocated corporate expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $45 million of charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by $16 million of L3 merger-related transaction and integration costs in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The decrease in unallocated corporate expense in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $45 million of 



 30



charges related to our decision to transition and exit a commercial air-to-ground LTE radio communications line of business in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and a $12 million adjustment for deferred compensation in the second quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by $29 million of L3 merger-related transaction and integration costs in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019.
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND FINANCIAL STRATEGIES



Cash Flows



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash and cash equivalents: The $46 million net increase in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2018 to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to:



•$874 million of net cash provided by operating activities; partially offset by



•$278 million of net repayments of borrowings, including $300 million used for repayment at maturity of the entire principal amount of our Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019;



•$244 million used to pay cash dividends;



•$200 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; and 



•$104 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.
The $41 million net decrease in cash and cash equivalents from the end of fiscal 2017 to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to:



•$230 million of net cash provided by operating activities, reflecting the impact of a $300 million voluntary pension contribution;



•$185 million of net proceeds from borrowings, including $250 million in proceeds from the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes due April 2020, $300 million in proceeds from the issuance of the Floating Rate Notes due February 2019, $253 million used for repayment of our remaining outstanding indebtedness under the 5-year tranche of our variable-rate term loans due May 29, 2020, $16 million used for repayment of outstanding indebtedness under the 3-year tranche of our variable-rate term loans due May 29, 2018 and $75 million used for repayment of short-term debt outstanding under our commercial paper program; and



•$31 million of proceeds from exercises of employee stock options; more than offset by



•$205 million used to pay cash dividends; 



•$197 million used to repurchase shares of our common stock; and



•$79 million used for additions of property, plant and equipment.
At March 29, 2019, we had cash and cash equivalents of $334 million, and we have a senior unsecured $1 billion revolving credit facility that expires in June 2023 (of which $900 million was available to us as of March 29, 2019, as a result of $100 million of short-term debt outstanding under our commercial paper program).
Additionally, we had $3.4 billion of long-term debt outstanding at March 29, 2019, the majority of which we incurred in connection with our acquisition of Exelis in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015.
For further information regarding our long-term debt, see Note 13: “Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K. Our $334 million of cash and cash equivalents at March 29, 2019 included $141 million held by our foreign subsidiaries, of which $67 million was considered permanently reinvested.
Determining the future tax cost of repatriating such funds to the U.S. is not practical at this time, because the cost impact of the rules regarding the netting of earnings of related foreign subsidiaries is subject to clarification.
However, we have no current plans to repatriate the funds considered permanently reinvested.
Given our current cash position, outlook for funds generated from operations, credit ratings, available credit facility, cash needs and debt structure, we have not experienced to date, and do not expect to experience, any material issues with liquidity, although we can give no assurances concerning our future liquidity, particularly in light of our overall level of debt, U.S. Government budget uncertainties (including the recent, or any potential successive, U.S. Government shutdown) and the state of global commerce and financial uncertainty.
31



We also currently believe that existing cash, funds generated from operations, our credit facility and access to the public and private debt and equity markets will be sufficient to provide for our anticipated working capital requirements, capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program and repayments of our debt securities at maturity for the next 12 months and the reasonably foreseeable future thereafter.
Our total capital expenditures in fiscal 2019 are expected to be approximately $170 million.
Other than those cash outlays noted in “Contractual Obligations” in Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K and “Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations” below in this MD&A, capital expenditures, dividend payments, repurchases under our share repurchase program and payments associated with our pending merger with L3 (including transaction and integration costs), we do not anticipate any significant cash outlays during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
If we are unable to maintain cash balances or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our obligations, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate strategic acquisitions, reduce or terminate our share repurchases, reduce or eliminate dividends, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt or obtain additional financing.
Net cash provided by operating activities: The $644 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to a $300 million voluntary contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plans during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the impact of higher net income, a $115 million decrease in cash used to fund working capital, reflecting a reduction in accounts receivables despite higher revenue, and a $50 million decrease in cash used for matching contributions to defined contribution plans.
Net cash used in investing activities: The $23 million increase in net cash used in investing activities in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to a $25 million increase in cash used for additions of property, plant and equipment.
Net cash used in financing activities: The $526 million increase in net cash used in financing activities in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to $278 million of net repayments of borrowings in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared with $185 million of net proceeds from borrowings in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 and a $39 million increase in cash used to pay dividends.
Funding of Pension Plans



Funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations are a major consideration in making contributions to our U.S. pension plans.
Although we have significant discretion in making voluntary contributions, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and further amended by the Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (“MAP-21”), and applicable Internal Revenue Code regulations mandate minimum funding thresholds.
With respect to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans, we intend to contribute annually not less than the required minimum funding thresholds.
The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 further extended the interest rate stabilization provision of MAP-21 until 2020.
We made voluntary contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans of $300 million and $400 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, respectively.
As a result, we anticipate making no contributions to our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans and minor contributions to our non-U.S. pension plan during the remainder of fiscal 2019.
Future required contributions primarily will depend on the actual annual return on assets and the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation at the end of each year.
Depending on these factors, and the resulting funded status of our pension plans, the level of future statutory required minimum contributions could be material.
We had net unfunded defined benefit plan obligations of $601 million at March 29, 2019.
See Note 14: “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K and Note J — Postretirement Benefit Plans in the Notes for further information regarding our pension plans.
Common Stock Repurchases 



During the first three quarters of fiscal 2019, we used $200 million to repurchase 1,219,750 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $163.99, including commissions of $.02 per share.
During the 



 32



first three quarters of fiscal 2018, we used $197 million to repurchase 1,466,713 shares of our common stock under our repurchase program at an average price per share of $134.36, including commissions of $.01 per share.
In the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, $24 million and $10 million, respectively, in shares of our common stock were delivered to us or withheld by us to satisfy withholding taxes on employee share-based awards.
Shares purchased by us are cancelled and retired.
As of March 29, 2019, we had a remaining, unused authorization of approximately $501 million under our repurchase program, which does not have an expiration date.
Repurchases under our repurchase program are expected to be funded with available cash and commercial paper and may be made through open market purchases, private transactions, transactions structured through investment banking institutions or any combination thereof.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will not make repurchases of our common stock at least until after closing of the pending merger, without L3’s consent.
Additional information regarding our repurchase program is set forth in this Report under Part II.
Item 2.
“Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.”



Dividends



On August 25, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on our common stock from $.570 per share to $.685 per share, for an annualized cash dividend rate of $2.740 per share, which was our seventeenth consecutive annual increase in our quarterly cash dividend rate.
Our annualized cash dividend rate in fiscal 2018 was $2.280 per share.
There can be no assurances that our annualized cash dividend rate will continue to increase.
Quarterly cash dividends are typically paid in March, June, September and December.
We currently expect that cash dividends will continue to be paid in the near future, but we can give no assurances concerning payment of future dividends.
Capital Structure and Resources



2018 Credit Agreement: We have a $1 billion, 5-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “2018 Credit Facility”) under a Revolving Credit Agreement (the “2018 Credit Agreement”) entered into on June 26, 2018 with a syndicate of lenders.
For a description of the 2018 Credit Facility and the 2018 Credit Agreement, see Note 12: “Credit Arrangements” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.



We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2018 Credit Agreement at March 29, 2019, including the covenant requiring that we not permit our ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to total capital, each as defined in the 2018 Credit Agreement, to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
At March 29, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under the 2018 Credit Agreement but we had $100 million in borrowings outstanding under our commercial paper program that was supported by the 2018 Credit Facility.
Long-Term Debt: For a description of our long-term variable-rate and fixed-rate debt, see Note 13: “Debt” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.



Short-Term Debt: Our short-term debt at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018 was $103 million and $78 million, respectively.
Our short-term debt at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018 consisted of commercial paper and local borrowing by international subsidiaries for working capital needs.
Our commercial paper program was supported at March 29, 2019 and June 29, 2018 by the 2018 Credit Facility.
Other Agreements: We have a RSA with a third-party financial institution that permits us to sell, on a non-recourse basis, up to $50 million of outstanding receivables at any given time.
From time to time, we have sold certain customer receivables under the RSA, which we continue to service and collect on behalf of the third-party financial institution and which we account for as sales of receivables with sale proceeds included in net cash from operating activities.
The impact to net cash from operating activities from these transactions was not material in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
33



Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



In accordance with the definition under SEC rules, any of the following qualify as off-balance sheet arrangements:



•Any obligation under certain guarantee contracts;



•A retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangement that serves as credit, liquidity or market risk support to that entity for such assets;



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under certain derivative instruments; and



•Any obligation, including a contingent obligation, under a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that is held by, and material to, the registrant, where such entity provides financing, liquidity, market risk or credit risk support to the registrant, or engages in leasing, hedging or R&D services with the registrant.
As of March 29, 2019, we were not participating in any material transactions that generated relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities, and we did not have any material retained or contingent interest in assets as defined above.
We have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses and assets.
In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, we would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements.
Commercial Commitments and Contractual Obligations 



The amounts disclosed in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K include our contractual obligations and commercial commitments.
Except for changes in our short-term debt as described under “Capital Structure and Resources” in this MD&A and the repayment at maturity of the entire $300 million principal amount of our Floating Rate Notes due February 27, 2019, no material changes occurred during the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 in our contractual cash obligations to repay debt, to purchase goods and services, to make payments under operating leases or our commercial commitments, or in our contingent liabilities on outstanding surety bonds, standby letters of credit or other arrangements as disclosed in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K.
In connection with the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, we have a contractual obligation to issue 1.30 shares of our common stock for each share of L3 common stock outstanding at closing of the pending merger, and we expect to incur other expenses, such as transaction costs, other payments required as a result of the merger and integration and post-closing restructuring costs.
See Note S — Pending Merger in the Notes for further information.
In addition, we may have obligations under other contractual arrangements that are accelerated or otherwise impacted as a result of the merger.
34



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and accompanying Notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
These estimates and assumptions are affected by the application of our accounting policies.
Effective June 30, 2018, we adopted ASC 606, a new revenue recognition standard under which revenue is recognized as control transfers to the customer.
The guidance in this standard is principles-based, and, consequently, entities are required to use more judgment and make more estimates than under prior guidance, including identifying contract performance obligations, estimating variable consideration to include in the contract price and allocating the transaction price to separate performance obligations.
Under ASC 606, revenue for our contracts is generally recognized over time using the cost-to-cost method, which is consistent with the revenue recognition model we used for the majority of our contracts prior to the adoption of this standard.
In most cases, the accounting for contracts where we previously recognized revenue as units were delivered has changed under ASC 606 such that we now recognize revenue as costs are incurred.
In addition, for certain of our contracts, there is a change in the number of performance obligations under ASC 606, which has altered the timing of revenue and margin recognition.
Refer to Note 1 — “Significant Accounting Policies” in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our Fiscal 2017-2018 Update 8-K for a description of our updated revenue recognition accounting policies and other significant accounting policies updated in connection with our adoption of ASC 606, as well as for all other significant accounting policies.
Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that require application of management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of matters that are inherently uncertain and may change in subsequent periods.
For additional discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Item 7.
Revenue and profit related to development and production contracts are recognized over time, typically using the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, whereby we measure our progress toward completion of performance obligations based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to estimated costs at completion under the contract.
Because costs incurred represent work performed, we believe this method best depicts the transfer of control to the customer.
We determine the transaction price for each contract based on our best estimate of the consideration we expect to receive, and this includes assumptions regarding variable consideration, such as award and incentive fees.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain negotiated performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
Under the POC cost-to-cost method of revenue recognition, a single estimated profit margin is used to recognize profit for each performance obligation over its period of performance.
Recognition of profit on a contract requires estimates of the total cost at completion and transaction price and the measurement of progress towards completion.
Due to the long-term nature of many of our contracts, developing the estimated total cost at completion and total transaction price often requires judgment.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include: the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, subcontractor performance and the risk and impact of delayed performance.
Factors that must be considered in estimating the total transaction price include contractual cost or performance incentives (such as incentive fees, award fees and penalties) and other forms of variable consideration as well as our historical experience and expectation for performance on the contract.
At the outset of each contract, we gauge its complexity and perceived risks and establish an estimated total cost at completion in line with these expectations.
After establishing the estimated total cost at completion, we follow a standard EAC process in which we review the progress and performance on our ongoing contracts at least quarterly and, in many cases, more frequently.
If we successfully retire risks associated with the technical, schedule and cost aspects of a contract, we may lower our estimated total cost at completion commensurate with the retirement of these risks.
Conversely, if we are not successful in retiring these risks, we may increase our estimated total cost at completion.
Additionally, as the contract progresses, our estimates of total transaction price may increase or decrease if, for example, we receive award fees that are higher or lower than expected.
When adjustments in estimated total costs at completion or in estimated total transaction price are determined, the related impact on operating income is recognized using the cumulative catch-up method, which recognizes in the current period the cumulative effect of such adjustments for all prior periods.
Any anticipated losses on these contracts are fully recognized in the period in which the losses become evident.
35



EAC adjustments had the following impacts to operating income for the periods presented: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Third Quarter 2019 Compared With Third Quarter 2018: The net favorable impact to operating income from EAC adjustments in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the net unfavorable impact to operating income from EAC adjustments in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to higher cost efficiencies realized in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and the conclusion of certain Mission Networks programs that realized cost growth in third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by a $12 million unfavorable adjustment in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 from a reduction in estimated transaction price for a fixed-price infrastructure development contract.
First Three Quarters 2019 Compared With First Three Quarters 2018: The net favorable impact to operating income from EAC adjustments in the first three quarters of fiscal 2019 compared to the net unfavorable impact to operating income from EAC adjustments in the first three quarters of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the conclusion of certain Mission Networks programs that realized cost growth in first three quarters of fiscal 2018, partially offset by a $12 million unfavorable adjustment in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 from a reduction in estimated transaction price for a fixed-price infrastructure development contract.
We also recognize revenue from contracts with multiple performance obligations.
For these contracts, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of the good or service underlying each performance obligation.
The standalone selling price represents the amount for which we would sell the good or service to a customer on a standalone basis (i.e., not sold as bundled sale with any other products or services).
The allocation of transaction price among separate performance obligations may impact the timing of revenue recognition but will not change the total revenue recognized on the contract.
As a result, the standalone selling prices of the goods and services in these contracts are typically equal to the selling prices stated in the contract, thereby eliminating the need to allocate (or reallocate) the transaction price to the multiple performance obligations.
In addition, we determine standalone selling price for certain contracts that are commercial in nature based on observable selling prices.
In determining the appropriate margin under the cost plus margin approach, we consider historical margins on similar products sold to similar customers or within similar geographies where objective evidence is available.
Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards



Accounting standards that have been recently issued, but are not yet effective for us, are described in Note A — Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Standards in the Notes, which describes the potential impact that these standards are expected to have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
•We depend significantly on U.S. Government contracts, which often are only partially funded, subject to immediate termination, and heavily regulated and audited.
•The U.S. Government’s budget deficit, the national debt and sequestration, as well as any inability of the U.S. Government to complete its budget process for any government fiscal year and consequently having to operate on funding levels equivalent to its prior fiscal year pursuant to a “continuing resolution” or shut down, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•Our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of our employees, agents or business partners.
•We may not be successful in obtaining the necessary export licenses to conduct certain operations abroad, and Congress may prevent proposed sales to certain foreign governments.
•Disputes with our subcontractors or the inability of our subcontractors to perform, or our key suppliers to timely deliver our components, parts or services, could cause our products, systems or services to be produced or delivered in an untimely or unsatisfactory manner.
•Some of our workforce is represented by labor unions, so our business could be harmed in the event of a prolonged work stoppage.
“Risk Factors” and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
The foregoing list of factors and the factors set forth in Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” included in our Fiscal 2018 Form 10-K and in Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report are not exhaustive.
For further information concerning risk factors, see Part II.
Item 1A.
“Risk Factors” in this Report.
