At April 30, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding under any of our credit facilities.
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 



In the first six months of fiscal 2019, we derived approximately 63% of our revenues from customers located outside of the Americas.
All of our computerized machine tools and computer control systems, as well as certain proprietary service parts, are sourced by our U.S.-based engineering and manufacturing division and re-invoiced to our foreign sales and service subsidiaries, primarily in their functional currencies.
The predominant portion of the exchange rate risk associated with our product purchases relates to the New Taiwan Dollar and the Euro.
We enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts from time to time to hedge the cash flow risk related to forecasted inter-company sales and purchases denominated in, or based on, foreign currencies (primarily the Euro, Pound Sterling, and New Taiwan Dollar).
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies.
We also enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge a portion of our net investment denominated in Euros.
Forward contracts for the sale or purchase of foreign currencies as of April 30, 2019, which are designated as cash flow hedges under FASB guidance related to accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, were as follows (in thousands, except weighted average forward rates): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*New Taiwan Dollars per U.S. Dollar 



 27  



Forward contracts for the sale or purchase of foreign currencies as of April 30, 2019, which were entered into to protect against the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies and are not designated as hedges under FASB guidance, were as follows (in thousands, except weighted average forward rates): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* New Taiwan Dollars per U.S. Dollar 



We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange risk related to our investment in net assets in foreign countries.
To manage this risk, we have maintained a forward contract with a notional amount of €3.0 million.
We designated this forward contract as a hedge of our net investment in Euro-denominated assets.
We selected the forward method under FASB guidance related to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
The forward method requires all changes in the fair value of the contract to be reported as a cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in the same manner as the underlying hedged net assets.
This forward contract matures in November 2019.
Forward contracts for the sale or purchase of foreign currencies as of April 30, 2019, which are designated as net investment hedges under this guidance were as follows (in thousands, except weighted average forward rates): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 28
