 Item 2.
We provide comprehensive electronics design, production and product management services to companies in various industries and end markets.
Our manufacturing and supply chain management services and solutions include innovation, design, planning, fabrication and assembly, delivery and managing the flow of resources and products.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from production and product management services (collectively referred to as “manufacturing services”), which encompasses the act of producing tangible products that are built to customer specifications, which are then provided to the customer.
We serve our customers primarily through dedicated business units that combine highly automated, continuous flow manufacturing with advanced electronic design and design for manufacturability.
Based on net revenue for the nine months ended May 31, 2019, our largest customers include Amazon.com, Inc., Apple, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., GoPro, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Ingenico Group, Keysight Technologies, LM Ericsson Telephone Company, NetApp, Inc., and Nokia Networks.
We derived a substantial majority, 86.5% and 89.2%, of net revenue from our international operations for the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019.
Our global presence is key to assessing and executing on our business opportunities.
We have two reporting segments: Electronics Manufacturing Services (“EMS”) and Diversified Manufacturing Services (“DMS”), which are organized based on the economic profiles of the services performed, including manufacturing capabilities, market strategy, margins, return on capital and risk profiles.
Our EMS segment is focused around leveraging IT, supply chain design and engineering, technologies largely centered on core electronics, utilizing our large scale manufacturing infrastructure and our ability to serve a broad range of end markets.
cycle time) and in larger quantities and includes customers primarily in the automotive and transportation, capital equipment, cloud, computing and storage, defense and aerospace, industrial and energy, networking and telecommunications, print and retail, and smart home and appliances industries.
Our DMS segment is focused on providing engineering solutions, with an emphasis on material sciences and technologies.
Our DMS segment is typically a higher-margin business and includes customers primarily in the edge devices and accessories, healthcare, mobility and packaging industries.
The following table sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, certain of management’s key financial performance indicators:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



The sales cycle is calculated as the sum of days in accounts receivable and days in inventory, less the days in accounts payable; accordingly, the variance in the sales cycle quarter over quarter is a direct result of changes in these indicators.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (3)  



During the three months ended November 30, 2018, the increase in days in accounts receivable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
(4)  



In connection with the adoption of ASU 2014-09, days in inventory are calculated based on inventory and contract asset balances for the three months ended May 31, 2019, February 28, 2019 and November 30, 2018.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, days in inventory increased from the prior sequential quarter to support anticipated ramps and expected sales levels in the second half of fiscal year 2019 and due to the acquisition of Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies (“JJMD”) facilities at the end of February.
During the three months ended November 30, 2018, days in inventory increased from the prior sequential quarter to support expected sales levels in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
(5)  



During the three months ended May 31, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
During the three months ended February 28, 2019, the decrease in days in accounts payable from the prior sequential quarter was primarily due to lower materials purchases during the quarter and timing of purchases and cash payments for purchases during the quarter.
Revenue Recognition  



Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
26   



Table of Contents 



Recent Accounting Pronouncements  



See Note 14 – “New Accounting Guidance” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance.
In addition, the added cost structures associated with our acquisitions have historically been relatively insignificant when compared to our overall cost structure.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenue increased during the three months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018.
Specifically, the EMS segment revenues increased 26% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from new customers within our cloud business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business, (iii) an 8% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business and (iv) a 6% increase in revenues from existing customers within our print and retail business.
The decrease was partially offset by a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
Net revenue increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Specifically, the EMS segment revenues increased 27% primarily due to (i) a 9% increase in revenues from customers within our networking and telecommunications business, (ii) a 9% increase in revenues from new customers within our cloud business, (iii) a 9% increase in revenues from existing customers within our industrial and energy business and (iv) a 5% increase in revenues from existing customers within our print and retail business.
The increase is partially offset by a 5% decrease from existing customers within our computing and storage business and capital equipment business.
DMS segment revenues remained consistent due to a 6% increase in revenues from existing customers in our healthcare business.
Effective September 1, 2018, our revenue recognition accounting policies changed in conjunction with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
Upon adoption, we recognize revenue over time as manufacturing services are completed for the majority of our contracts with customers, which results in revenue being recognized earlier than under the previous guidance.
For further discussion of the new revenue recognition standard, refer to Note 16 — “Revenue” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, revenue by segment expressed as a percentage of net revenue:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



27   



Table of Contents 



The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, foreign source revenue expressed as a percentage of net revenue:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross Profit  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, gross profit for our DMS segment increased as a percentage of net revenue due to improved profitability across the various businesses.
As a result, gross profit remained relatively consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Selling, General and Administrative  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the three months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased during the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018.
The increase is partially offset by an additional $32.4 million of stock-based compensation expense recognized during the nine months ended May 31, 2018 as a result of the one-time modification of certain performance-based restricted stock unit awards and a one-time cash-settled award.
Research and Development  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Research and development expenses remained consistent as a percentage of net revenue during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Amortization of Intangibles  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



28   



Table of Contents 



Amortization of intangibles decreased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to intangible assets related to the Nypro acquisition, which were fully amortized during fiscal year 2018.
Restructuring and Related Charges  



Following is a summary of the Company’s restructuring and related charges (in millions):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



Includes $7.6 million and $4.6 million recorded in the EMS segment, $0.0 million and $5.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $1.7 million and $2.2 million of non-allocated charges for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Includes $12.3 million and $12.6 million recorded in the EMS segment, $2.1 million and $13.8 million recorded in the DMS segment and $1.8 million and $3.1 million of non-allocated charges for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
2017 Restructuring Plan  



On September 15, 2016, our Board of Directors formally approved a restructuring plan to better align our global capacity and administrative support infrastructure to further optimize organizational effectiveness.
This action includes headcount reductions across our selling, general and administrative cost base and capacity realignment in higher cost locations (the “2017 Restructuring Plan”).
The 2017 Restructuring Plan, totaling $195.0 million in restructuring and other related costs, is substantially complete as of May 31, 2019.
See Note 12 – “Restructuring and Related Charges” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of restructuring and related charges for the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
Other Expense  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Other expense increased for the three months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to $6.1 million of additional fees associated with the utilization of the foreign and North American asset-backed securitization programs and trade accounts receivable sales programs.
This increase was partially offset by $2.1 million of other expense.
Other expense increased for the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to: (i) $20.6 million of additional fees incurred for the amendment of the foreign asset-backed securitization program and the new North American asset-backed securitization program and an increase in fees associated with the utilization of the asset-backed securitization programs and trade accounts receivable sales programs.
The increase was partially offset by (i) $5.1 million of other expense and (ii) $2.6 million of costs incurred during the nine months ended May 31, 2018, as a result of the early redemption of the 8.250% Senior Notes due 2018.
29   



Table of Contents 



Interest Income  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest income increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, due to increased cash equivalents (investments that are readily convertible to cash with maturity dates of 90 days or less).
Interest Expense  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest expense increased during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2018, due to additional borrowings on our credit facilities and higher interest rates.
For the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, additional borrowings were driven by the timing and scale of our ongoing new business ramps.
Additionally, the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was also impacted by the completion of the share repurchase program.
Income Tax Expense  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The effective tax rate increased for the three months ended May 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to decreased income in jurisdictions with low tax rates or existing valuation allowances.
The effective tax rate decreased for the nine months ended May 31, 2019, compared to the nine months ended May 31, 2018, primarily due to $30.9 million of tax expense from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“Tax Act”) for the nine months ended May 31, 2018.
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Management believes that the non-GAAP “core” financial measures set forth below are useful to facilitate evaluating the past and future performance of our ongoing manufacturing operations over multiple periods on a comparable basis by excluding the effects of the amortization of intangibles, stock-based compensation expense and related charges, restructuring and related charges, distressed customer charges, acquisition and integration charges, loss on disposal of subsidiaries, settlement of receivables and related charges, impairment of notes receivable and related charges, goodwill impairment charges, business interruption and impairment charges, net, other than temporary impairment on securities, income (loss) from discontinued operations, gain (loss) on sale of discontinued operations and certain other expenses, net of tax and certain deferred tax valuation allowance charges.
Among other uses, management uses non-GAAP “core” financial measures to make operating decisions, assess business performance and as a factor in determining certain employee performance when evaluating incentive compensation.
In the case of restructuring and related charges, we may make associated cash payments in the future.
We encourage you to consider these matters when evaluating the utility of these non-GAAP financial measures.
(2)  



Charges, net of insurance proceeds of $5.0 million for the three months ended May 31, 2018, and $2.9 million and $21.4 million for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, relate to business interruptions and asset impairment costs associated with damage from Hurricane Maria, which impacted our operations in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
(3)  



Charges related to our strategic collaboration with Johnson & Johnson Medical Devices Companies (“JJMD”).
(2)   



The tax effect is calculated by applying the core effective tax rate for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 to core operating income less interest expense.
(3)   



The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the most recently-ended quarter to the account balance at the end of the prior quarter and dividing by two.
Acquisitions and Expansion  



During fiscal year 2019, the Company and JJMD entered into a Framework Agreement to form a strategic collaboration and expand our existing relationship.
The strategic collaboration expands our medical device manufacturing portfolio, diversification and capabilities.
On February 25, 2019 and April 29, 2019, under the terms of the Framework Agreement, we completed the initial closing and second closing, respectively, of our acquisition of certain assets of JJMD.
The preliminary aggregate purchase price paid for both the initial closing and second closing was approximately $153.2 million in cash, which remains subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
The acquisition of the JJMD assets has been accounted for as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Total assets acquired of $163.6 million and total liabilities assumed of $10.4 million were recorded at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition dates.
The final closings, which are subject to customary closing conditions, are expected to occur during fiscal year 2020.
We are currently evaluating the fair values of the assets and liabilities related to this business combination.
The preliminary estimates and measurements are, therefore, subject to change during the measurement period for assets acquired, liabilities assumed and tax adjustments.
We believe it is impracticable to provide pro forma information for the acquisition of JJMD assets.
32   



Table of Contents 



Liquidity and Capital Resources  



We believe that our level of liquidity sources, which includes available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, additional proceeds available under our asset-backed securitization programs and under our uncommitted trade accounts receivable sale programs, cash on hand, funds provided by operations and the access to the capital markets, will be adequate to fund our capital expenditures, the payment of any declared quarterly dividends, approved share repurchase programs, any potential acquisitions and our working capital requirements for the next 12 months.
We continue to assess our capital structure and evaluate the merits of redeploying available cash to reduce existing debt or repurchase common stock.
Cash and Cash Equivalents  



As of May 31, 2019, we had approximately $694.1 million in cash and cash equivalents.
Notes Payable and Credit Facilities  



Following is a summary of principal debt payments and debt issuance for our notes payable and credit facilities:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



As of May 31, 2019, we had $2.0 billion in available unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities.
We have a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering the potential sale of an indeterminate amount of debt and equity securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.
Our Senior Notes and our credit facilities contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of May 31, 2019, we were in compliance with our debt covenants.
Refer to Note 7 – “Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
Asset-Backed Securitization and Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  



Asset-Backed Securitization Programs  



We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our foreign asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to an unaffiliated financial institution and a conduit administered by an unaffiliated financial institution on a monthly basis.
Effective October 1, 2018, the foreign asset-backed securitization program terms were amended and the program was extended to September 30, 2021.
In connection with this amendment, there is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the foreign asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
33   



Table of Contents 



As of October 1, 2018, approximately $734.2 million of accounts receivable sold under the foreign asset-backed securitization program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $335.5 million.
The remaining amount due to the financial institution of $398.7 million was subsequently settled for $25.2 million of cash and $373.5 million of trade accounts receivable sold to the financial institution.
Prior to the amendment, any portion of the purchase price for the receivables not paid in cash upon the sale occurring was recorded as a deferred purchase price receivable, which was paid from available cash as payments on the receivables were collected.
The foreign asset-backed securitization program contains a guarantee of payment by the special purpose entity, in an amount equal to approximately the net cash proceeds under the program.
No liability has been recorded for obligations under the guarantee as of May 31, 2019.
The North American asset-backed securitization program was terminated on October 9, 2018 and as of this date approximately $500.0 million of accounts receivable sold under the program was exchanged for the outstanding deferred purchase price receivable of $300.0 million and $200.0 million of cash.
The previously sold trade accounts receivable were recorded at fair market value.
On November 27, 2018, we entered into a new North American asset-backed securitization program.
We continuously sell designated pools of trade accounts receivable under our new North American asset-backed securitization program to a special purpose entity, which in turn sells certain of the receivables to conduits administered by unaffiliated financial institutions on a monthly basis.
There is no longer a deferred purchase price receivable for the North American asset-backed securitization program as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold.
Additionally, $204.4 million of receivables are pledged as collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution as of May 31, 2019.
Following is a summary of our asset-backed securitization programs and key terms:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



Maximum amount available at any one time.
In connection with our asset-backed securitization programs, during the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, we sold $1.0 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable and we received cash proceeds of $1.0 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively.
As of May 31, 2019, we had up to $55.1 million in available liquidity under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Our asset-backed securitization programs contain various financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under our asset-backed securitization programs.
Refer to Note 8 – “Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization and Sale Programs” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the programs.
Trade Accounts Receivable Sale Programs  



Following is a summary of the trade accounts receivable sale programs with unaffiliated financial institutions.
Under the programs we may elect to sell receivables and the unaffiliated financial institutions may elect to purchase, at a discount, on an ongoing basis:  



34   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



Maximum amount available at any one time.
(2)  



Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 15 days prior notice.
(3)  



The program will automatically extend for one year at each expiration date unless either party provides 10 days notice of termination.
(4)  



Any party may elect to terminate the agreement upon 30 days prior notice.
(5)  



The program will be automatically extended through January 25, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
(6)  



The program will be automatically extended through August 10, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
(7)  



The program will be automatically extended through August 21, 2023 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
(8)  



The program will be automatically extended each year through February 28, 2024 unless either party provides 90 days notice of termination.
(9)  



The program will be automatically extended each year through April 11, 2025 unless either party provides 30 days notice of termination.
During the three months and nine months ended May 31, 2019, we sold $1.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively, of trade accounts receivable under these programs and we received cash proceeds of $1.5 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively.
As of May 31, 2019, we had up to $1.3 billion in available liquidity under our trade accounts receivable sale programs.
Capital Expenditures  



For fiscal year 2019, we anticipate our net capital expenditures will be approximately $800.0 million.
Our capital expenditures will support investments in new markets and ongoing maintenance in our DMS and EMS segments.
Cash Flows  



The following table sets forth selected consolidated cash flow information (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



35   



Table of Contents 



Operating Activities  



Net cash provided by operating activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was primarily due to decreased inventories, increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities and non-cash expenses, partially offset by increased contract assets and accounts receivable.
The decrease in inventories is primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the reclassification to contract assets for revenue recognized for over time customers, partially offset by an increase in inventories to support expected sales levels in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The increase in contract assets is due to the adoption of ASU 2014-09 and the timing of revenue recognition for over time customers.
The increase in accounts receivable is primarily driven by the amended and new securitization programs and higher sales and timing of collections.
Investing Activities  



Net cash used in investing activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 consisted primarily of capital expenditures principally to support ongoing business in the DMS and EMS segments and expenditures for assets acquired in connection with the initial and second closings of the acquisition of JJMD, partially offset by proceeds and advances from the sale of property, plant and equipment and cash receipts on sold receivables under the asset-backed securitization programs.
Financing Activities  



Net cash provided by financing activities during the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was primarily due to: (i) borrowings under debt agreements and (ii) net proceeds from the exercise of stock options and issuance of common stock under the employee stock purchase plan.
Net cash provided by financing activities was largely offset by: (i) payments for debt agreements, (ii) the repurchase of our common stock, (iii) dividend payments and (iv) treasury stock minimum tax withholding related to vesting of restricted stock.
Contractual Obligations  



As of the date of this report, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business since August 31, 2018 to our contractual obligations and commitments.
However, the declaration and payment of future dividends are discretionary and will be subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter following its review of our financial performance.
In June 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our common stock (the “2018 Share Repurchase Program”).
This authorization expires on August 31, 2019.
As of May 31, 2019, the total amount authorized by the Board of Directors had been repurchased.
36   



Table of Contents 



 Item 2.
