Item 1.Financial Statements



j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited, in thousands except share and per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-3-



 j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



(Unaudited, in thousands except share and per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-4-



j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited, in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-5-



j2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited, in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-6-



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



JUNE 30, 2018 



(UNAUDITED)



1.Basis of Presentation



j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global” or the “Company”), is a leading provider of internet services.
In addition, the Cloud Services segment includes fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products.
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
Allowances for Doubtful Accounts



j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
-7-



Principal vs.
If the Company is acting as the principal in a transaction, the Company reports revenue on a gross basis.
If the Company is acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company reports revenue on a net basis.
In determining whether the Company acts as the principal or an agent, the Company follows the accounting guidance under Topic 605 for principal-agent considerations and places the most weight on three factors: whether or not the Company (i) is the primary obligor in the arrangement, (ii) has latitude in determining pricing and (iii) bears credit risk.
ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“Topic 606”, “ASC 606” or the “new revenue standard”)



j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
Principal vs.
If the Company is acting as the principal in a transaction, the Company reports revenue on a gross basis.
If the Company is acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company reports revenue on a net basis.
In determining whether the Company acts as the principal or an agent, the Company follows the accounting guidance under Topic 606 for principal-agent considerations and assesses: (i) if another party is involved in providing goods or services to the customer and (ii) whether the Company controls the specified goods or services prior to transferring control to the customer.
Investments



The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”).
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate and governmental debt securities.
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
-8-



Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”)



A VIE requires consolidation by the entity’s primary beneficiary.
The Company evaluates its investments in entities in which it is involved to determine if the entity is a VIE and if so, whether it holds a variable interest and is the primary beneficiary.
The Company has determined that it holds a variable interest in its investment as a limited partner in the OCV Fund I, LP (“OCV Fund”, “OCV” or the “Fund”).
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
Fair Value Measurements



j2 Global complies with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic No.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of June 30, 2018, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Property and Equipment



Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Equipment under capital leases is stated at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
These costs and discounts are amortized and included in interest expense over the life of the borrowing or term of the credit facility using the effective interest method.
Contingent Consideration



j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation.
Ultimately, the liability will be equivalent to the amount paid, and the difference between the fair value estimate and the amount paid will be recorded in earnings.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
Self-Insurance Program



j2 Global is self-insured for certain subsidiaries providing health and dental insurance plans to its employees through a self-insurance structure.
Accounting guidance also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major customers.
The Company operates as two segments: (1) Cloud Services and (2) Digital Media.
Reclassifications



Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2018 presentation.
2.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
The amendments in this ASU modify how entities measure equity investments and present changes in the fair value of financial liabilities.
An entity may elect to measure an equity security without a readily determinable fair value that does not qualify for the practical expedient to estimate fair value under ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements, and as such these investments may be measured at cost.
This ASU is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company has adopted this ASU on a prospective basis in the first quarter of 2018 and has determined that investments within the scope of the standard will be recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings which may lead to increased volatility in other expense.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2016-02, Leases.
This ASU establishes a right-of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record a ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than 12 months.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the income statement.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements, with certain practical expedients available.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases.
This ASU is meant to clarify the guidance in ASU 2016-02, Leases.
This ASU does not change the core principle of the guidance in Topic 842.
Instead, the amendments provide clarifying guidance in a few narrow areas.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements.
This ASU provides another transition method for entities who have not yet adopted the new leasing standard by allowing entities to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a 



-10-



cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company expects to adopt these ASUs January 1, 2019 and expects the adoption to have a material effect on its condensed consolidated balance sheet and disclosures.
The Company continues to assess the effect of adoption and believes the most significant changes relate to the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for capital and operating leases.
The Company has both capital and operating leases, both domestically and internationally, with varying expiration dates through 2025 in the aggregate amount of $80.2 million for the period ended June 30, 2018.
Significant changes in leasing activity between now and adoption are not expected.
In addition, the Company continues to identify which practical expedients will be elected, if any.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
The amendments in this ASU replace the incurred loss impairment methodology in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
In January 2017, the FASB issued 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment.
The amendments in this ASU simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test and eliminating the requirement for a reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment.
Instead, under this pronouncement, an entity would perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and would recognize an impairment change for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized is not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted and should be adopted on a prospective basis.
This ASU is effective for all entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this ASU on our financial statements and related disclosures.
In March 2018, the FASB issued 2018-05, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB” or “SAB 118”) (issued in December 2017).
The amendments in this ASU add SEC interpretive guidance pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 which assists registrants address any diversity of views in applying Topic 740 in the reporting period in which the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Tax Act”) was enacted.
The Company has adopted this ASU on a prospective basis and has complied with SAB 118 (see Note 10 - Income Taxes).
-11-



In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting.
The amendments in this ASU expand the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
The amendments specify that Topic 718 applies to all share-based payment transactions in which a grantor acquires goods or services to be used or consumed in a grantor’s own operations by issuing share-based payment awards.
The amendments also clarify that Topic 718 does not apply to share-based payments used to effectively provide (1) financing to the issuer or (2) awards granted in conjunction with selling goods or services to customers as part of a contract accounted for under Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this ASU on our financial statements and related disclosures.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09, Codification Improvements.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this ASU on our financial statements and related disclosures.
3.Revenues



Digital Media



Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services and from subscriptions to services and information.
Revenue is earned from the delivery of advertising services on the Company’s owned and operated websites and on those websites that are part of Digital Media’s advertising network.
Depending on the individual contracts with the customer, revenue for these services are recognized over the contract period when any of the following performance obligations are satisfied: (i) when an advertisement is placed for viewing, (ii) when a qualified sales lead is delivered, (iii) when a visitor “clicks through” on an advertisement or (iv) when commissions are earned upon the sale of an advertised product.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, certain data products or services to customers.
Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material.
Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service.
Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources.
Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise.
Revenues under such license agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the asset.
These assets are recognized over the term of the access period.
The Digital Media business also generates other types of revenues, marketing and production services, and from other sources.
Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered.
Revenues are no longer generated in 2018 from certain marketing and production services as a result of the sale of certain Digital Media assets during 2017.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to revenue generated (i) by the Company serving online display and video advertising across its owned and operated web properties, on third-party sites or on unaffiliated advertising networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions.
The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.
Cloud Services



The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card.
The Company defers the portions of monthly, quarterly, semi-annually and annually recurring subscription and usage-based fees collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations and recognizes them in the period earned.
-12-



Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business.
These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer.
With regard to royalty-bearing license arrangements, the Company recognizes revenues of license fees earned during the applicable period.
Generally, revenue is recognized over time as the third party uses the licensed technology over the period.
The cumulative effect of the changes made to our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2018 for the adoption of Topic 606 is as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following tables summarize the impact of adopting Topic 606 on the Company’s consolidated financial statements (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-13-



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenues from external customers classified by revenue source are as follows (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) In the second quarter of 2018, the Company reclassified the Other revenues associated with its Digital Media segment to Advertising revenue.
The Company has recorded $74.5 million of revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2018 which was previously included in the contract liability balance as of the adoption date.
-14-



Performance Obligations



The Company’s contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
For such arrangements, revenues are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Digital Media segment upon delivery of services to its customers.
Payments for these services are typically due shortly after they have been provided.
In addition, the Company provides content to its advertising partners which the Company sells to its partners’ customer base and receives a revenue share based on the terms of the agreement.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Cloud Services segment upon delivery of services to its customers.
Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered.
The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant.
For certain services and customer types, we require payment before services are delivered to the customer.
Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.
Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
Performance Obligations Satisfied Over Time



The Company’s Digital Media segment consists primarily of performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
This was determined based on a review of the contracts and the nature of the services offered, where the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit of the services provided.
Satisfaction of these performance obligations is evidenced in the following way:



Advertising



•Website reporting by the Company, the customer, or a third-party contains the delivery evidence needed to satisfy the performance obligations within the advertising contract



•Successfully delivered leads are evidenced by either delivery reports from the Company’s internal lead management systems or through e-mail communication and/or other evidence of delivery showing acceptance of leads by the customer



•Commission is evidenced by direct site reporting from the affiliate or via direct confirmation from the customer



Subscription



•Evidence of delivery is contained in the Company’s systems or from correspondence with the customer which tracks when a customer accepts delivery of any assets, digital keys or download links



The Company has concluded revenue is recognized based on delivery of services over the contract period for advertising and on a straight-line basis over the contract period for subscriptions.
The Company believes that the methods described are a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
The Company’s Cloud Services segment consists primarily of performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
This has been determined based on the fact that the nature of services offered are subscription based and include fax, voice, backup, security and email marketing products where the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit of the services provided regardless of whether the customer uses the services or not.
As a result, the Company has concluded that the best measure of progress toward the complete satisfaction of the performance obligation over time is a time-based measure.
The Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis throughout the subscription period and believes that the method used is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
-15-



Performance Obligations Satisfied at a Point in Time



The Company’s Digital Media segment has technology subscriptions where the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time.
This is evidenced once a digital key is delivered to the customer.
Once the key is delivered to the customer, the customer has full control of the technology and the Company has no further performance obligations.
The Company has concluded that revenue is recognized once the digital key is delivered.
The Company believes that this method is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
Practical Expedients



Existence of a Significant Financing Component in a Contract



As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less.
In addition, the Company has determined that the payment terms that the Company provides to its customers are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company.
Costs primarily consist of incentive compensation paid based on the achievements of sales targets in a given period for related revenue streams and are recognized in the month when the revenue is earned.
For those customer contracts greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the appropriate contract periods.
4.Business Acquisitions



The Company uses acquisitions as a strategy to grow its customer base by increasing its presence in new and existing markets, expand and diversify its service offerings, enhance its technology, acquire skilled personnel and enter into other jurisdictions.
The Company completed the following acquisitions during the first six months of fiscal 2018, paying the purchase price in cash in each transaction: (a) a share purchase of the entire issued capital of ThreatTrack Security Holdings, Inc., acquired on January 26, 2018, a Florida-based provider of cybersecurity solutions; (b) an asset purchase of Line2, Inc., acquired on June 18, 2018, a California-based provider of voice solutions; (c) a share purchase of all the membership interests of Mosaik Solutions, LLC, acquired on June 18, 2018, a Tennessee-based provider of mobile coverage data and network intelligence for mobile operators and network-dependent enterprises; and (d) one other immaterial acquisition of a digital health business.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, these acquisitions contributed $11.7 million to the Company’s revenues.
Net income contributed by these acquisitions was not separately identifiable due to j2 Global’s integration activities and is impracticable to provide.
Total consideration for these transactions was $101.0 million, net of cash acquired and assumed liabilities and is subject to certain post-closing adjustments which may increase or decrease the final consideration paid.
-16-



The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase consideration for these acquisitions (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Cash contains an immaterial amount of restricted cash associated with a pre-acquisition relationship with a vendor expected to be released during 2018.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the purchase price accounting has been finalized for the following acquisitions: (i) WeCloud AB; (ii) ThreatTrack Security Holdings, Inc.; and (iii) one other immaterial email security business.
The initial accounting for all other 2018 acquisitions is incomplete and subject to change, which may be significant.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded adjustments to prior period acquisitions due to the finalization of purchase accounting in the Cloud Services segment which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $(1.0) million.
In addition, the Company recorded adjustments to the initial working capital related to prior period acquisitions in the Digital Media segment, which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $(0.4) million.
Such adjustments had an immaterial impact on the amortization expense within the condensed consolidated statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and represents intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition.
Goodwill recognized associated with these acquisitions during the six months ended June 30, 2018 is $71.4 million, of which $13.9 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
5.Investments



Investments consist of certificates of deposits, equity and debt securities.
The Company has adopted ASU 2016-01 during the first quarter 2018 (see Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements) and determined that the equity securities that were received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves Health, LLC (“Tea Leaves”) in fiscal year 2017 are without a readily determinable fair value because these securities are privately held, not traded on any public exchanges and not an investment in a mutual fund or similar investment.
As a result, management has elected to alternatively measure this investment at cost, less impairment, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes to estimate fair value.
In addition, the Company determined that the shares of redeemable preferred stock that was also received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves are corporate debt securities and are classified as available-for-sale securities.
The following table summarizes j2 Global’s corporate debt securities designated as available-for-sale, classified by the contractual maturity date of the security (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-18-



Recognition and Measurement of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment



Regardless of the classification of the securities as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, the Company has assessed each position for impairment.
An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis.
Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.
For these securities, a critical component of the evaluation for other-than-temporary impairments is the identification of credit impairment, where management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security.
Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities.
The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows from the securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using relevant interest rate curves over the remaining term.
Securities that have been identified as other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to their current fair value.
For debt securities that are intended to be sold or that management believes it more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell prior to recovery, the full impairment is recognized immediately in earnings.
For available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities that management has no intent to sell and believes that it more-likely-than-not that it will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in earnings, while the rest of the fair value impairment is recognized in other comprehensive income.
The credit loss component recognized in earnings is identified as the amount of principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the security.
On September 25, 2017, the Company entered into a commitment to invest $200 million (approximately 66.7% of equity) in the OCV Fund.
The total expected commitment to the OCV Fund is expected to be approximately $300 million.
The primary purpose of the Fund is to provide a limited number of select investors with the opportunity to realize long-term appreciation from public and private companies, with a particular focus on the technology and life science industries.
The general activities of the OCV Fund is to buy, sell, hold and otherwise invest in securities of every kind and nature and rights and options with respect thereto, including, without limitation, stock, notes, bonds, debentures and evidence of indebtedness; to exercise all rights, powers, privileges and other incidents of ownership or possession with respect to securities held or owned by the OCV Fund; to enter into, make and perform all contracts and other undertakings; and to engage in all activities and transactions as may be necessary, advisable or desirable to carry out the foregoing.
The manager and general partner of the Fund are entities with respect to which Richard S. Ressler, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Company, is indirectly the majority equity holder and a related party.
As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments.
In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner would be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%.
The Fund has a six year investment period, subject to certain exceptions.
The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.
During 2018, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV Management, LLC.
for $34.6 million, inclusive of certain management fees, of which $21.7 million has been paid for the six months ended June 30, 2018.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recognized an investment loss of $3.0 million, net of tax benefit.
The loss is presented in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income as loss from equity investments, net.
The following table discloses the carrying amount for the Company’s equity method investment (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As a limited partner, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss is $17.7 million and is limited to its proportional ownership in the partnership.
In addition, the Company’s is not required to contribute capital in an aggregate amount in excess of its capital commitment and any expected losses will not be in excess of the Capital Account.
Finally, there are no call or put options, or other types of arrangements, which limit the Company’s ability to participate in losses and returns of the Fund.
-20-



6.Fair Value Measurements



j2 Global complies with the provisions of ASC 820, which defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
ASC 820 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability.
As a basis for considering such assumptions, ASC 820 establishes a three-tier value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring fair value:



 lLevel 1 – Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
lLevel 2 – Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
lLevel 3 – Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity.
The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The Company’s money market funds are classified within Level 1.
The Company values these Level 1 investments using quoted market prices.
The Company’s debt securities are classified within Level 2.
The Company values these Level 2 investments based on model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data.
The fair value of long-term debt at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $1.2 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.
In addition, the Convertible Notes contain terms that may require the Company to pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes which is accounted for as a derivative with fair value adjustments being recorded to interest expense (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt).
This derivative is fair valued using a binomial lattice convertible bond pricing model using historical and implied market information, which are Level 2 inputs.
The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was determined using option based approaches.
This methodology was utilized because the distribution of payments is not symmetric and amounts are only payable upon certain earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) thresholds being reached.
Such valuation approach included a Monte-Carlo simulation for the contingency since the financial metric driving the payments is path dependent.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018, there were no transfers that have occurred between levels.
-22-



The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company’s derivative instruments (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company’s Level 3 financial assets or liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In connection with the acquisition of Humble Bundle, on October 13, 2017, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $40.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA thresholds and had a fair value of $29.6 million and $19.7 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
In connection with the acquisition of blackfriday.com, on November 7, 2017, the Company achieved certain earnings targets and, as a result, contingent consideration of $0.8 million was paid to the seller during the first quarter 2018 in connection with this acquisition.
In connection with the acquisition of Mosaik Solutions, on June 18, 2018, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $1.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain income thresholds and had a fair value of $0.8 million at June 30, 2018.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $9.9 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.
7.Goodwill and Intangible Assets



Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
Intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of entities accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting are recorded at the estimated fair value of the assets acquired.
Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, developed technologies and other intangible assets.
Identifiable intangible assets are amortized over the period of estimated economic benefit, which ranges from one to 20 years.
-23-



The changes in carrying amounts of goodwill for the six months ended June 30, 2018 are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Purchase accounting adjustments relate to measurement period adjustments to goodwill in connection with prior business acquisitions (see Note 4 - Business Acquisitions).
Intangible Assets with Indefinite Lives:



Intangible assets are summarized as of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Intangible Assets Subject to Amortization:



As of June 30, 2018, intangible assets subject to amortization relate primarily to the following (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Historically, the Company has amortized its customer relationship assets in a pattern that best reflects the pace in which the asset’s benefits are consumed.
This pattern results in a substantial majority of the amortization expense being recognized in the first 4 to 5 years, despite the overall life of the asset.
As of December 31, 2017, intangible assets subject to amortization relate primarily to the following (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Historically, the Company has amortized its customer relationship assets in a pattern that best reflects the pace in which the asset’s benefits are consumed.
This pattern results in a substantial majority of the amortization expense being recognized in the first 4 to 5 years, despite the overall life of the asset.
-24-



Amortization expense, included in general and administrative expense, approximated $33.8 million and $31.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $66.9 million and $62.5 million for the six month periods ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Amortization expense is estimated to approximate $174.8 million, $96.7 million, $55.7 million, $40.3 million and $31.6 million for fiscal years 2018 through 2022, respectively, and $110.0 million thereafter through the duration of the amortization period.
8.
Long-Term Debt



6.0% Senior Notes



On June 27, 2017, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (“j2 Cloud”) and j2 Cloud Co-Obligor (the “Co-Issuer” and together with j2 Cloud, the “Issuers”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, completed the issuance and sale of $650 million aggregate principal amount of their 6.0% senior notes due in 2025 (the “6.0% Senior Notes”) in a private placement offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
The 6.0% Senior Notes are presented as long-term debt, net of deferred issuance costs, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of June 30, 2018.
The 6.0% Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 6.0% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2018.
The 6.0% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2025, and are senior unsecured obligations of the Issuers and are guaranteed on an unsecured basis by certain subsidiaries of j2 Cloud (as defined in the Indenture agreement dated June 27, 2017, the “Indenture”).
If j2 Cloud or any of its restricted subsidiaries acquires or creates a domestic restricted subsidiary, other than an insignificant subsidiary (as defined in the Indenture), after the issue date, or any insignificant subsidiary ceases to fit within the definition of insignificant subsidiary, such restricted subsidiary is required to unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, on an unsecured basis, the Issuers’ obligations under the 6.0% Senior Notes.
The Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at any time on or after July 15, 2020 at specified redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
Before July 15, 2020, in connection with certain equity offerings, the Issuers also may redeem up to 35% of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 106.0% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
In addition, at any time prior to July 15, 2020, the Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.
The Indenture contains certain restrictive and other covenants applicable to j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries including, but not limited to, restrictions on (i) paying dividends or making distributions on j2 Cloud’s membership interests or repurchasing j2 Cloud’s membership interests; (ii) making certain restricted payments; (iii) creating liens or entering into sale and leaseback transactions; (iv) entering into transactions with affiliates; (v) merging or consolidating with another company; and (vi) transferring and selling assets.
These covenants include certain exceptions.
Restricted payments, specifically dividend payments, are applicable only if j2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries has a leverage ratio of greater than 3.0 to 1.0.
In addition, if such leverage ratio is in excess of 3.0 to 1.0, the restriction on restricted payments is subject to various exceptions, including an exception for the payment of restricted payments up to $75 million.
These contractual provisions did not, as of June 30, 2018, restrict j2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to j2 Global, Inc.
The company is in compliance with its debt covenants as of June 30, 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, the estimated fair value of the 6.0% Senior Notes was approximately $658.1 million and was based on the quoted market prices of debt instruments with similar terms, credit rating and maturities of the 6.0% Senior Notes which are Level 2 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
3.25% Convertible Notes



On June 10, 2014, j2 Global issued $402.5 million aggregate principal amount of 3.25% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2029 (the “Convertible Notes”).
The Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
Beginning with the six-month interest period commencing on June 15, 2021, the Company must pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes during any six-month interest period if the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes for each of the five trading days immediately preceding the first day of such interest period equals or exceeds $1,300.
Any contingent interest payable on the Convertible Notes will be in addition to the regular interest payable on the Convertible Notes.
-25-



Holders may surrender their Convertible Notes for conversion at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date only if one or more of the following conditions is satisfied: (i) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2014 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing sale price of j2 Global common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the calendar quarter immediately preceding the calendar quarter in which the conversion occurs is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price of the Convertible Notes on each such trading day; (ii) during the five consecutive business day period following any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price for the Convertible Notes for each such trading day was less than 98% of the product of (a) the closing sale price of j2 Global common stock on each such trading day and (b) the applicable conversion rate on each such trading day; (iii) if j2 Global calls any or all of the Convertible Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day prior to the redemption date; (iv) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events; or (v) during either the period beginning on, and including, March 15, 2021 and ending on, but excluding, June 20, 2021 or the period beginning on, and including, March 15, 2029 and ending on, but excluding, the maturity date.
j2 Global will settle conversions of Convertible Notes by paying or delivering, as the case may be, cash, shares of j2 Global common stock or a combination thereof at j2 Global’s election.
As of June 30, 2018, the conversion rate is 14.6399 shares of j2 Global common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which represents a conversion price of approximately $68.31 per share of j2 Global common stock.
The conversion rate is subject to adjustment for certain events as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, but will not be adjusted for accrued interest.
In addition, following certain corporate events that occur on or prior to June 20, 2021, j2 Global will increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with such a corporate event.
j2 Global may not redeem the Convertible Notes prior to June 20, 2021.
On or after June 20, 2021, j2 Global may redeem for cash all or part of the Convertible Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
No sinking fund is provided for the Convertible Notes.
Holders have the right to require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes on each of June 15, 2021 and June 15, 2024 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date.
In addition, if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, occurs prior to the maturity date, holders may require j2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date.
The Convertible Notes are the Company’s general senior unsecured obligations and rank: (i) senior in right of payment to any of the Company’s future indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Convertible Notes; (ii) equal in right of payment to the Company’s existing and future unsecured indebtedness that is not so subordinated; (iii) effectively junior in right of payment to any of the Company’s secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and (iv) structurally junior to all existing and future indebtedness (including trade payables) incurred by the Company’s subsidiaries.
Accounting for the Convertible Notes



In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, convertible debt that can be settled for cash is required to be separated into the liability and equity component at issuance, with each component assigned a value.
The value assigned to the liability component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of similar debt without the conversion feature.
The difference between the cash proceeds and estimated fair value of the liability component, representing the value of the conversion premium assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount on the issuance date.
This debt discount is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021.



j2 Global estimated the borrowing rates of similar debt without the conversion feature at origination to be 5.79% for the Convertible Notes and determined the debt discount to be $59.0 million.
As a result, a conversion premium after tax of $37.7 million was recorded in additional paid-in capital.
The aggregate debt discount is amortized as interest expense over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021, which management believes is the expected life of the Convertible Notes using an interest rate of 5.81%.
As of June 30, 2018, the remaining period over which the unamortized debt discount will be amortized is 3.0 years.
-26-



The Convertible Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs.
The fair value of the Convertible Notes at each balance sheet date is determined based on recent quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the Convertible Notes, which are Level 1 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
If such information is not available, the fair value is determined using cash-flow models of the scheduled payments discounted at market interest rates for comparable debt without the conversion feature.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of the Convertible Notes was approximately $539.4 million and $504.5 million, respectively.
On February 17, 2011, Emmanuel Pantelakis (“Pantelakis”) filed suit against a j2 Global affiliate in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (No.
11-50673), alleging that the j2 Global affiliate breached a contract relating to Pantelakis’s use of the Campaigner service.
The j2 Global affiliate filed a responsive pleading on March 23, 2011 and responses to undertakings on July 16, 2012.
On November 6, 2012, Pantelakis filed a second amended statement of claim, reframing his lawsuit as a negligence action.
The j2 Global affiliate filed an amended statement of defense on April 8, 2013.
Discovery has closed.
A judicial pre-trial has been set for September 27, 2018, with an anticipated trial date of January 2020.
On January 17, 2013, the Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Revenue (“Commissioner”) issued a notice of assessment to a j2 Global affiliate for sales and use tax for the period of July 1, 2003 through December 31, 2011.
On July 22, 2014, the Commissioner denied the j2 Global affiliate’s application for abatement.
C325426).
A trial was held on December 16, 2015.
On May 18, 2017, the Appellate Board decided in favor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
The j2 Global affiliate has requested the findings of fact and conclusions of law from the Appellate Board.
On January 21, 2016, Davis Neurology, P.A.
filed a putative class action against two j2 Global affiliates in the Circuit Court for the County of Pope, State of Arkansas (58-cv-2016-40), alleging violations of the TCPA.
The case was ultimately removed to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas (the “Eastern District of Arkansas”) (No.
4:16-cv-00682).
On June 6, 2016, the j2 Global affiliates filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings.
On March 20, 2017, the Eastern District of Arkansas dismissed all claims against the j2 Global affiliates.
On July 23, 2018, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the judgment and remanded to district court with instructions to return the case to state court.
On August 1, 2018, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals granted an extension of time to file a petition for rehearing.
It is the Company’s policy to expense as incurred legal fees related to various litigations.
The aggregate assessments at June 30, 2018 were not material.
The June 2018 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., No.
The Company has a $4.6 million reserve established for these matters.
10.Income Taxes



The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete interim period tax impacts.
Each quarter the Company updates its estimated annual effective tax rate and, if the estimate changes, makes a cumulative adjustment.
The Company’s effective tax rate was 18.3% and 22.8% for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 21.8% and 24.6% for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Income before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $0.2 million and $9.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $64.1 million and $66.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The 2017 Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017.
In addition, SAB 118 provides for a measurement period of one year from the enactment date to finalize the accounting for effects of the 2017 Tax Act.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company recorded an estimated tax benefit of approximately $33.3 million.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company has not adjusted its provisional estimate related to re-measurement of its deferred tax balances.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a provisional estimate of the transition tax of $49.2 million payable over an eight year period.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company has not adjusted its provisional estimate of the transition tax.
Therefore, the Company did not include a provisional amount for this item in its financial statements for fiscal 2017.
Therefore, the Company has not determined its accounting policy on the GILTI provisions.
However, the standard requires that the Company reflect the impact of the GILTI provisions as a period expense until the accounting policy is finalized.
Therefore, the Company has included the provisional estimate of GILTI related to current-year operations in its estimated annual effective tax rate only and will be updating the impact and accounting policy as the analysis related to the GILTI provisions is completed.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had $54.5 million and $52.2 million, respectively, in liabilities for uncertain income tax positions.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds received was $16.6 million and $26.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company’s prepaid taxes were $8.8 million and $6.0 million at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The Company was under audit by the Georgia Department of Revenue (“Georgia DOR”) for tax years 2014 through 2016.
In June 2018, the Georgia DOR concluded its audit of tax years 2014 through 2016.
However, it is not currently possible to estimate the amount, if any, of such change.
11.Stockholders’ Equity



Common Stock Repurchase Program



In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 19, 2019.
-29-



In July 2016, the Company acquired and subsequently retired 935,231 shares of j2 Global common stock in connection with the acquisition of Integrated Global Concepts, Inc. As a result of the purchase of j2 Global common stock, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a reduction in the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program by the same amount leaving 1,938,689 shares of j2 Global common stock available for purchase under this program.
During the six month period ended June 30, 2018, we repurchased zero shares under this program.
Cumulatively at June 30, 2018, 2.1 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $58.6 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
During the three month period ended June 30, 2018, the Company purchased 31,839 shares from plan participants for this purpose.
Dividends



The following is a summary of each dividend declared during fiscal year 2018 and 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Future dividends are subject to Board approval.
Each plan is described below.
The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other share-based awards.
4,500,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2007 Plan purposes.
Options under the 2007 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for incentive stock options and not less than 85% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for non-statutory stock options.
As of June 30, 2018, 253,667 shares underlying options and 7,460 shares of restricted units were outstanding under the 2007 Plan.
The 2007 Plan terminated on February 14, 2017.
The 2015 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance share units and other share-based awards and is intended as a successor plan to the 2007 Stock Plan since no further grants will be made under the 2007 Stock Plan.
4,200,000 shares of j2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2015 Plan purposes.
Options under the 2015 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the higher of the par value or 100% of the fair market value of j2 Global’s common stock subject to the option on the date the option is granted.
All stock option grants are approved by “outside directors” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
-30-



Stock Options



The following table represents stock option activity for the six months ended June 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The total intrinsic values of options exercised during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were $3.4 million and $2.0 million, respectively.
The Company recognized $0.2 million and $50,000 of compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.5 million and $0.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, unrecognized stock compensation related to non-vested stock options granted under each of the share-based compensation plans approximated $7.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
Unrecognized stock compensation expense related to non-vested stock options granted under these plans is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 7.4 years (i.e., the remaining requisite service period).
Fair Value Disclosure



j2 Global uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the fair value of each option grant.
The Company estimates the expected term based upon the historical exercise behavior of our employees.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant.
The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.
Estimated forfeiture rates were 10.59% and 14.43% as of June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units



j2 Global has awarded restricted stock and restricted stock units to its Board of Directors and senior staff pursuant to certain share-based compensation plans.
Compensation expense resulting from restricted stock and restricted unit grants is measured at fair value on the date of grant and is recognized as share-based compensation expense over the applicable vesting period.
Vesting periods are approximately one year for awards to members of the Company’s Board of Directors, five years for senior staff (excluding market-based awards discussed below) and eight years for the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”).
Restricted Stock - Awards with Market Conditions



j2 Global has awarded certain key employees market-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the 2015 Plan.
Stock-based compensation expense related to an award with a market condition will be recognized over the requisite service period using the graded-vesting method regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service period has been completed.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company awarded 473,501 and 85,825 market-based restricted stock awards, respectively.
The per share weighted average grant-date fair values of the market-based restricted stock awards granted during the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were $52.95 and $72.20, respectively.
-31-



The weighted-average fair values of market-based restricted stock awards granted have been estimated utilizing the following assumptions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restricted stock award activity for the six months ended June 30, 2018 is set forth below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restricted stock unit award activity for the six months ended June 30, 2018 is set forth below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company recognized $6.6 million and $5.5 million of compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $12.8 million and $9.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had unrecognized share-based compensation cost of approximately $75.9 million and $36.6 million, respectively, associated with these awards.
This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 5.8 years for awards and 3.6 years for units.
The price of the j2 Global common stock purchased under the Purchase Plan for the offering periods is equal to 95% of the fair market value of the j2 Global common stock at the end of the offering period.
On February 2, 2018, the Company approved an amendment to the Company’s Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, to be effective May 1, 2018, such that (i) the purchase price for each offering period shall be 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of a share of common stock of the Company (a “Share”) on the beginning or the end of the offering period, rather than 95% of the fair market value of a Share at the end of the offering period, and (ii) each offering period will be six months, rather than three months.
-32-



j2 Global performed an analysis of the Amendment terms and determined that a plan provision exists which allows for the more favorable of two exercise prices, commonly referred to as a “look-back” feature.
The purchase price discount and the look-back feature cause the Purchase Plan to be compensatory and the Company to recognize compensation expense.
The compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the estimated fair value of the purchase right issued under the ESPP.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant.
The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.
Estimated forfeiture rates were 0.10% as of June 30, 2018.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, 1,781 and 1,606 shares were purchased under the Purchase Plan, respectively.
Cash received upon the issuance of j2 Global common stock under the Purchase Plan was $135,000 and $133,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018, 1,621,462 shares were available under the Purchase Plan for future issuance.
The Company recognized $0.2 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $0.2 million and zero of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan has been estimated utilizing the following assumptions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-33-



13.Earnings Per Share



The components of basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows (in thousands, except share and per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(a) Represents unvested share-based payment awards that contain certain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid).
(b) Represents the incremental shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes due June 15, 2029 by applying the treasury stock method when the average stock price exceeds the conversion price of the Convertible Notes (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt).
For the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock.
14.Segment Information



The Company’s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance.
j2 Global’s reportable business segments are: (i) Cloud Services and (ii) Digital Media.
The Company’s Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
Geographic information about the U.S. and all other countries for the reporting periods is presented below.
Such information attributes revenues based on jurisdictions where revenues are reported (in thousands).
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



15.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income



The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated balances of other comprehensive income, net of tax, for the three months ended June 30, 2018 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated balances of other comprehensive income, net of tax, for the six months ended June 30, 2018 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-35-



16.Subsequent Events



On July 6, 2018, the Company paid a capital call notice from the management of OCV Management, LLC, for approximately $12.9 million, inclusive of certain management fees.
On July 13, 2018, in a cash transaction, the Company acquired certain assets of bestblackfriday.com, an online business providing deals, offers, commerce related content and email marketing to consumers.
On July 19, 2018, in a cash transaction, the Company acquired through a share purchase all the issued capital of DemandShore Inc., a provider of lead generation to sales and marketing professionals across B2B technology companies globally.
On August 8, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.4250 per share of j2 Global common stock payable on September 4, 2018 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 20, 2018.
-36-
