Item 1.Financial Statements



J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited, in thousands except share and per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-3-



 J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



(Unaudited, in thousands except share and per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-4-



J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited, in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-5-



J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



 (Unaudited, in thousands) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-6-



J2 GLOBAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 and 2019



(unaudited, in thousands, except share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-7-



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



-8-



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



SEPTEMBER 30, 2019 



(UNAUDITED)



1.
In addition, the Cloud Services business includes fax, voice, backup, security, consumer privacy and protection (“CPP”), and email marketing products.
Our Digital Media business specializes in the technology, gaming, broadband, business to business (“B2B”), healthcare, and international markets, offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
Allowances for Doubtful Accounts



J2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media business are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
Revenue Recognition



J2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
Principal vs.
If the Company is acting as the principal in a transaction, the Company 



-9-



reports revenue on a gross basis.
If the Company is acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company reports revenue on a net basis.
In determining whether the Company acts as the principal or an agent, the Company follows the accounting guidance under Topic 606 for principal-agent considerations and assesses: (i) if another party is involved in providing goods or services to the customer and (ii) whether the Company controls the specified goods or services prior to transferring control to the customer.
Fair Value Measurements



J2 Global complies with the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) ASC Topic No.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
The fair value of the Company’s outstanding debt was determined using the quoted market prices of available debt instruments with similar terms and maturities.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to J2 Global.
Investments



The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
320, Investments - Debt Securities (“ASC 320”).
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
J2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Trading securities are those investments that the Company intends to sell within a few hours or days and are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in investment income.
Available-for-sale debt securities are those investments J2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold.
Held-to-maturity securities are those investments which the Company has the ability and intent to hold until maturity and are recorded at amortized cost.
All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”)



A VIE requires consolidation by the entity’s primary beneficiary.
The Company evaluates its investments in entities in which it is involved to determine if the entity is a VIE and if so, whether it holds a variable interest and is the primary beneficiary.
The Company has determined that it holds a variable interest in its investment as a limited partner in the OCV Fund I, LP (“OCV Fund”, “OCV” or the “Fund”).
J2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
See Note 5, “Investments”.
OCV qualifies as an investment company under ASC 946 - Financial Services, Investment Companies (“ASC 946”).
Under ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures, an investor that holds investments that qualify for specialized industry accounting for investment companies in accordance with ASC 946 should record its share of the earnings or losses, realized or unrealized, as reported by its equity method investees in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
Property and Equipment



Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Equipment under capital leases is stated at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The Company has capitalized certain internal use software and website development costs which are included in property and equipment.
The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
Contingent Consideration



J2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The Company may use various valuation techniques depending on the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration including a Monte-Carlo simulation.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
-11-



Self-Insurance Program



J2 Global provides health and dental insurance plans for certain of its employees through a self-insurance structure.
Accounting guidance also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major customers.
The Company’s business segments are based on the organization structure used by the chief operating decision maker for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance.
The chief operating decision maker views the Company in two businesses: Cloud Services and Digital Media.
However, in accordance with the aggregation criteria within the accounting guidance, J2 Global’s operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable segments: (i) Fax and Martech (formerly Email Marketing); (ii) Voice, Backup, Security, and Consumer Privacy and Protection; and (iii) Digital Media.
Reclassifications



Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2019 presentation.
2.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
The amendments in this ASU replace the incurred loss impairment methodology in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses.
The amendments in this ASU align the implementation date for nonpublic entities’ annual financial statements with the implementation date for their interim financial statements.
In addition, the amendment clarifies that receivables arising from operating leases are not within the scope of Subtopic 326-20; instead impairment of receivables arising from operating leases should be accounted for in accordance with Topic 842: Leases.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU No.
2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825 Financial Instruments.
The amendments in this ASU further clarify certain aspects of ASU No.
2016-13.
In May 2019, the FASB issued ASU No.
2019-05, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Targeted Transition Relief.
The amendments in this ASU provide transition relief for ASU No.
2016-13 by providing an option to irrevocably elect the fair value option for certain financial assets measured at an amortized cost basis.
Each of the ASUs previously mentioned are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years.
The adoption of these ASUs is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements and related disclosures.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement.
The amendments in this ASU remove, add, and modify certain disclosures.
The ASU removes the following disclosure requirements from Topic 820: (1) the amount of and reasons for transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; (2) the policy for timing of transfers between levels; (3) the valuation process for Level 3 fair value measurements; and (4) certain other requirements for nonpublic entities.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of this ASU on its financial statements and related disclosures.
-12-



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-15, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract.
The amendments in this ASU align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software).
The amendments in this ASU require an entity (customer) in a hosting arrangement that is a service to (1) determine which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense; (2) expense the capitalized implementation costs of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract over the term of the hosting arrangement; (3) apply the existing impairment guidance to the capitalized implementation costs as if the costs were long-lived assets; (4) present the expense related to the capitalized implementation costs in the same line item in the statement of income as the fees associated with the hosting element (service) of the arrangement and classify payments for capitalized implementation costs in the statement of cash flows in the same manner as payments made for fees associated with the hosting arrangements; and (5) present the capitalized implementation costs in the statement of financial position in the same line item that a prepayment for the fees of the associated hosting arrangement would be presented.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this ASU on its financial statements.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements and related disclosures.
In July 2019, the FASB issued ASU No.
2019-07, Codification Updates to SEC Sections: Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Final Rule Releases No.
33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, and Nos.
33-10231 and 33-10442, Investment Company Reporting Modernization, and Miscellaneous Updates.
This ASU is effective upon release.
The Company has adopted this ASU on a prospective basis in the third quarter of 2019 and has determined there to be no impact on its financial statements and related disclosures.
3.Revenues



Digital Media



Digital Media revenues are earned primarily from the delivery of advertising services, from subscriptions to services, data and information, and from licensing.
Revenue is earned from the delivery of advertising services on the Company’s owned and operated websites and on those websites that are part of Digital Media’s advertising network.
Depending on the individual contracts with the customer, revenue for these services are recognized over the contract period when any of the following performance obligations are satisfied: (i) when an advertisement is placed for viewing, (ii) when a qualified sales lead is delivered, (iii) when a visitor “clicks through” on an advertisement or (iv) when commissions are earned upon the sale of an advertised product.
Revenue from subscriptions is earned through the granting of access to, or delivery of, data products or services to customers.
Subscriptions cover video games and related content, health information, data and other copyrighted material.
Revenues under such agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the service.
Revenues are also earned from listing fees, subscriptions to online publications, and from other sources.
J2 Global generates Digital Media revenues through the license of certain assets to clients.
Assets are licensed for clients’ use in their own promotional materials or otherwise.
Revenues under such license agreements are recognized over the contract term for use of the asset.
These assets are recognized over the term of the access period.
The Digital Media business also generates revenue from other sources which include marketing and production services.
Such other revenues are generally recognized over the period in which the products or services are delivered.
J2 Global also generates Digital Media revenues from transactions involving the sale of perpetual software licenses, related software support and maintenance, hardware used in conjunction with its software, and other related services.
Revenues from software license performance obligations are generally recognized upfront at the point in time that the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues for related software support and maintenance 



-13-



performance obligations are related to technical support provided to customers as needed and unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches during the term of the support period when they are available.
The Company is obligated to make the support services available continuously throughout the contract period.
Therefore, revenues for support contracts are generally recognized ratably over the contractual period the support services are provided.
Hardware product and related software performance obligations, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a bundled performance obligation.
The revenues for this bundled performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware and software products are delivered and ownership is transferred to the customer.
Other service revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to revenue generated (i) by the Company serving online display and video advertising across its owned and operated web properties, on third-party sites or on unaffiliated advertising networks, (ii) through the Company’s lead-generation business and (iii) through the Company’s subscriptions.
The Company records revenue on a net basis with respect to revenue paid to the Company by certain third-party advertising networks who serve online display and video advertising across the Company’s owned-and-operated web properties and certain third-party sites.
Cloud Services



The Company’s Cloud Services revenues substantially consist of monthly recurring subscription and usage-based fees, which are primarily paid in advance by credit card.
Along with our numerous proprietary Cloud Services solutions, the Company also generates revenues by reselling various third-party solutions, primarily through our email security and online backup lines of business.
These third-party solutions, along with our proprietary products, allow the Company to offer customers a variety of solutions to better meet their needs.
The Company records revenue on a gross basis with respect to reseller revenue because the Company has control of the specified good or service prior to transferring control to the customer.
With regard to royalty-bearing license arrangements, the Company recognizes revenues of license fees earned during the applicable period.
Generally, revenue is recognized over time as the third party uses the licensed technology over the period.
The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related standard updates in January 2018 using a modified-retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the Update recognized at the date of application in retained earnings.
The change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2018 resulted in an adjustment to the Company’s retained earnings of $1.6 million (see Condensed Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity).
-14-



Revenues from external customers classified by revenue source are as follows (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company has recorded $20.5 million and $10.9 million of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $105.0 million and $67.9 million of revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which was previously included in the contract liability balance as of the beginning of each respective year.
Performance Obligations



The Company’s contracts with customers may include multiple performance obligations.
For such arrangements, revenues are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Digital Media business upon delivery of services to its customers.
In addition, the Company provides content to its advertising partners which the Company sells to its partners’ customer base and receives a revenue share based on the terms of the agreement.
The Company satisfies its performance obligations within the Cloud Services business upon delivery of services to its customers.
Payment terms vary by type and location of our customers and the services offered.
The term between invoicing and when payment is due is not significant.
Due to the nature of the services provided, there are no obligations for returns.
Judgment is also required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
-15-



Performance Obligations Satisfied Over Time



The Company’s Digital Media business consists primarily of performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
This was determined based on a review of the contracts and the nature of the services offered, where the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit of the services provided.
Satisfaction of these performance obligations is evidenced in the following ways:



Advertising



•Website reporting by the Company, the customer, or a third-party contains the delivery evidence needed to satisfy the performance obligations within the advertising contract



•Successfully delivered leads are evidenced by either delivery reports from the Company’s internal lead management systems or through e-mail communication and/or other evidence of delivery showing acceptance of leads by the customer



•Commission is evidenced by direct site reporting from the affiliate or via direct confirmation from the customer



Subscription



•Evidence of delivery is contained in the Company’s systems or from correspondence with the customer which tracks when a customer accepts delivery of any assets, digital keys or download links



The Company has concluded revenue is recognized based on delivery of services over the contract period for advertising and on a straight-line basis over the contract period for subscriptions.
The Company believes that the methods described are a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
The Company’s Cloud Services business consists primarily of performance obligations that are satisfied over time.
This has been determined based on the fact that the nature of services offered are subscription based and include fax, voice, backup, security, CPP, and email marketing products where the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit of the services provided regardless of whether the customer uses the services or not.
Depending on the individual contracts with the customer, revenue for these services are recognized over the contract period when any of the following materially distinct performance obligations are satisfied: 



•Faxing capabilities are provided



•Voice services are provided



•Email marketing services are provided



•Consumer privacy services are provided



•Security solutions, including email and endpoint are provided



•Online data backup capabilities are provided



The Company has concluded that the best measure of progress toward the complete satisfaction of the performance obligation over time is a time-based measure.
The Company recognizes revenue on a straight-line basis throughout the subscription period and believes that the method used is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
Performance Obligations Satisfied at a Point in Time



The Company’s Digital Media business has technology subscriptions that have standalone functionality.
As a result, they are considered to be functional intellectual property where the performance obligations are satisfied at a point in time.
This is evidenced once a digital key is delivered to the customer.
Once the key is delivered to the customer, the customer has full control of the technology and the Company has no further performance obligations.
The Company has concluded that revenue is recognized once the digital key is delivered.
The Company believes that this method is a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services.
-16-



Practical Expedients



Existence of a Significant Financing Component in a Contract



As a practical expedient, the Company has not assessed whether a contract has a significant financing component because the Company expects at contract inception that the period between payment by the customer and the transfer of promised goods or services by the Company to the customer will be one year or less.
In addition, the Company has determined that the payment terms that the Company provides to its customers are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company.
Incentive compensation is paid on the issuance or renewal of the customer contract.
For those customers with amortization periods determined to be greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the period of benefit.
In addition, the Company partners with various affiliates in order to generate a portion of its revenue for certain lines of business.
The commissions earned by the Company’s affiliates are incentive based and are paid based on the acquisition of new customers in a given period.
For those customers with amortization periods determined to be greater than one year, the Company capitalizes and amortizes the expenses over the period of benefit.
Revenues Invoiced



The Company has applied the practical expedient for certain revenue streams to exclude the value of remaining performance obligations for (i) contracts with an original expected term of one year or less or (ii) contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue in proportion to the amount it has the right to invoice for services performed.
4.Business Acquisitions



The Company uses acquisitions as a strategy to grow its customer base by increasing its presence in new and existing markets, expand and diversify its service offerings, enhance its technology, and acquire skilled personnel.
The Company completed the following acquisitions during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, paying the purchase price with a combination of cash and note payable: (a) an asset purchase of iContact, LLC, acquired on January 22, 2019, a North Carolina-based provider of email marketing solutions; (b) a share purchase of the entire issued capital of Safe Send AS, acquired on March 29, 2019, a Norwegian-based provider of email security solutions; (c) a share purchase of the entire issued capital of Highwinds Capital, Inc. and Cloak Holdings, LLC, acquired on April 2, 2019, a Texas-based provider in solutions for virtual private network (“VPN”) services; (d) an asset purchase of OffsiteDataSync, Inc., acquired on July 1, 2019, a New York-based provider in backup and disaster recovery solutions; (e) an asset and a share purchase of the entire issued capital of BabyCenter LLC., acquired on August 19, 2019, a California-based provider in digital parenting and pregnancy resources; (f) a share purchase of the entire issued capital of Spiceworks, Inc., acquired on August 21, 2019, a Texas-based provider in digital media advertising solutions; and (g) other immaterial acquisitions of online data backup, consumer privacy and protection, and digital media businesses.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, these acquisitions contributed $68.3 million to the Company’s revenues.
Net income contributed by these acquisitions was not separately identifiable due to J2 Global’s integration activities and is impracticable to provide.
Total consideration for these transactions was $425.8 million, net of cash acquired and assumed liabilities and is subject to certain post-closing adjustments which may increase or decrease the final consideration paid.
-17-



The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase consideration for these acquisitions (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the purchase price accounting has been finalized for the following acquisitions: (i) Mosaik Solutions, LLC; (ii) DemandShore Solutions Private Limited; (iii) DW PRIME Holdings, Inc.; (iv) The Communicator Corporation Limited; (v) iContact, LLC; and (vi) other immaterial backup businesses.
The initial accounting for all other 2019 acquisitions is incomplete and subject to change, which may be significant.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded adjustments to prior period acquisitions due to the finalization of purchase accounting in the Fax and Martech businesses which resulted in a net increase in goodwill of $0.2 million.
In addition, the Company recorded adjustments to the initial working capital and to the purchase accounting due to the finalization of prior period acquisitions in the Digital Media business, which resulted in a net decrease in goodwill of $1.1 million (see Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets).
Such adjustments had an immaterial impact on the amortization expense within the condensed consolidated statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Goodwill recognized associated with these acquisitions during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 is $254.8 million, of which $93.8 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The Company determined the equity securities that were received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves Health, LLC (“Tea Leaves”) in fiscal year 2017 are without a readily determinable fair value because these securities are privately held, not traded on any public exchanges and not an investment in a mutual fund or similar investment.
In addition, the Company determined that the shares of redeemable preferred stock that were also received as part of the consideration for the sale of Tea Leaves are corporate debt securities and are classified as available-for-sale securities.
An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis.
Unrealized losses that are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income for available-for-sale securities.
-20-



For these debt securities, a critical component of the evaluation for other-than-temporary impairments is the identification of credit impairment, where management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security.
Credit impairment is assessed using a combination of a discounted cash flow model that estimates the cash flows on the underlying securities and a market comparable method, where the security is valued based upon indications from the secondary market of what discounts buyers demand when purchasing similar securities.
The cash flow model incorporates actual cash flows from the securities through the current period and then projects the remaining cash flows using relevant interest rate curves over the remaining term.
Securities that have been identified as other-than-temporarily impaired are written down to their current fair value.
For available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities that management has no intent to sell and believes that it more-likely-than-not that it will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in earnings, while the rest of the fair value impairment is recognized in other comprehensive income.
The credit loss component recognized in earnings is identified as the amount of principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the security.
On September 25, 2017, the Company entered into a commitment to invest $200 million (approximately 66.7% of equity) in the OCV Fund.
The total expected commitment to the OCV Fund is expected to be approximately $300 million.
The primary purpose of the Fund is to provide a limited number of select investors with the opportunity to realize long-term appreciation from public and private companies, with a particular focus on the technology and life science industries.
The general activities of the OCV Fund is to buy, sell, hold and otherwise invest in securities of every kind and nature and rights and options with respect thereto, including, without limitation, stock, notes, bonds, debentures and evidence of indebtedness; to exercise all rights, powers, privileges and other incidents of ownership or possession with respect to securities held or owned by the OCV Fund; to enter into, make and perform all contracts and other undertakings; and to engage in all activities and transactions as may be necessary, advisable or desirable to carry out the foregoing.
-21-



The manager, OCV Management, LLC, and general partner of the Fund are entities with respect to which Richard S. Ressler, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Company, is indirectly the majority equity holder and a related party.
As a limited partner in the Fund, the Company will pay an annual management fee to the manager equal to 2.0% (reduced by 10% each year beginning with the sixth year) of capital commitments.
In addition, subject to the terms and conditions of the Fund’s limited partnership agreement, once the Company has received distributions equal to its invested capital, the Fund’s general partner would be entitled to a carried interest equal to 20%.
The Fund has a six year investment period, subject to certain exceptions.
The commitment was approved by the Audit Committee of the Board in accordance with the Company’s related-party transaction approval policy.
In the first nine months of 2019, the Company received capital call notices from the management of OCV Management, LLC.
for $22.3 million, inclusive of certain management fees, of which $22.3 million has been paid for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company received a distribution from OCV of $10.3 million.
The Company recognizes its equity in the net earnings or losses relating to the investment in OCV on a one-quarter lag due to the timing and availability of financial information from OCV.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized an investment loss of $3.5 million and $0.6 million, net of tax benefit, respectively, and during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized an investment (gain) loss of $(0.1) million and $3.6 million, net of tax (expense) benefit, respectively.
The loss (income) is presented in the Company’s condensed consolidated statement of income as loss (income) from equity investments, net.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized management fees of $0.8 million and $0.8 million, net of tax benefit, respectively, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized management fees of $2.3 million and $3.7 million, net of tax benefit, respectively.
The following table discloses the carrying amount for the Company’s equity method investment (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As a limited partner, the Company’s maximum exposure to loss is limited to its proportional ownership in the partnership.
In addition, the Company is not required to contribute capital in an aggregate amount in excess of its capital commitment and any expected losses will not be in excess of the Capital Account.
Finally, there are no call or put options, or other types of arrangements, which limit the Company’s ability to participate in losses and returns of the Fund.
6.Fair Value Measurements



J2 Global complies with the provisions of ASC 820, which defines fair value, provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
ASC 820 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that is determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability.
As a basis for considering such assumptions, ASC 820 establishes a three-tier value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in the valuation methodologies in measuring fair value:



 §Level 1 – Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
§Level 2 – Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
§Level 3 – Unobservable inputs which are supported by little or no market activity.
-22-



The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The Company’s money market funds are classified within Level 1.
The Company values these Level 1 investments using quoted market prices.
The Company values these Level 2 investments based on model-driven valuations using significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data.
The fair value of the Credit Facility approximates its carrying amount due to its variable interest rate, which approximates a market interest rate, and is considered a Level 2 input.
The fair value of long-term debt at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively (see Note 8 - Long-Term Debt).
In addition, the Convertible Notes contain terms that may require the Company to pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes which is accounted for as a derivative with fair value adjustments being recorded to interest expense (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt).
The fair value of this derivative is determined using a binomial lattice convertible bond pricing model using historical and implied market information, which are Level 2 inputs.
In the second quarter of 2019, the Company entered into a $5.5 million note payable that was short-term in nature and associated with the quarter’s acquisition activity.
In the third quarter of 2019, the Company paid down $5.1 million of the outstanding note.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of the note payable approximates fair value and is classified within Level 2.
The fair value of the contingent consideration liability was determined using option based approaches.
This methodology was utilized because the distribution of payments is not symmetric and amounts are only payable upon certain earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) thresholds being reached.
Such valuation approach included a Monte-Carlo simulation for the contingency since the financial metric driving the payments is path dependent.
For similar reasons, certain of the Company’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified within Level 3.
The fair value of these debt securities was derived using a hybrid approach consisting of two scenarios and subsequent allocation among each of the outstanding securities.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, there were no transfers that have occurred between levels.
The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company’s derivative instruments (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company’s Level 3 financial liabilities related to contingent consideration that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-24-



In connection with the acquisition of Humble Bundle, on October 13, 2017, contingent consideration of up to an aggregate of $40.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future EBITDA thresholds and had a fair value of $20.0 million and $40.0 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Due to the Company’s achievement of certain EBITDA targets for the year ended December 31, 2018 and the amended contingent consideration agreement, $20.0 million was paid in the second quarter of 2019 and an additional $20.0 million remains payable and is classified as a current liability on the consolidated balance sheet.
In connection with the acquisition of Ekahau Inc., on October 10, 2018, contingent consideration of up to $15.0 million may be payable upon achieving certain future revenue thresholds and had a fair value of $11.6 million and $3.7 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Due to the achievement of certain thresholds, $3.6 million was paid during the first nine months of 2019.
In the third quarter of 2019, $0.3 million was no longer considered contingent in connection with a prior year acquisition.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded an increase in the fair value of the contingent consideration of $8.0 million and reported such increase in general and administrative expenses.
Intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of entities accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting are recorded at the estimated fair value of the assets acquired.
Identifiable intangible assets are comprised of purchased customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, developed technologies and other intangible assets.
Identifiable intangible assets are amortized over the period of estimated economic benefit, which ranges from one to 20 years.
The changes in carrying amounts of goodwill for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Purchase accounting adjustments relate to measurement period adjustments to goodwill in connection with prior business acquisitions (see Note 4 - Business Acquisitions).
Intangible Assets with Indefinite Lives:



Intangible assets are summarized as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-25-



Intangible Assets Subject to Amortization:



As of September 30, 2019, intangible assets subject to amortization relate primarily to the following (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Historically, the Company has amortized its customer relationship assets in a pattern that best reflects the pace in which the asset’s benefits are consumed.
This pattern results in a substantial majority of the amortization expense being recognized in the first 4 to 5 years, despite the overall life of the asset.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company completed acquisitions which were individually immaterial.
The identified intangible assets recognized as part of these acquisition and their respective estimated weighted average amortizations were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of December 31, 2018, intangible assets subject to amortization relate primarily to the following (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Historically, the Company has amortized its customer relationship assets in a pattern that best reflects the pace in which the asset’s benefits are consumed.
This pattern results in a substantial majority of the amortization expense being recognized in the first 4 to 5 years, despite the overall life of the asset.
Amortization expense, included in general and administrative expense, approximated $50.4 million and $35.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $132.2 million and $102.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Amortization expense is estimated to approximate $47.9 million, $145.4 million, $107.8 million, $85.9 million and $51.9 million for the remaining three months of fiscal year 2019 through fiscal year 2023, respectively, and $134.3 million thereafter through the duration of the amortization period.
-26-



8.
Long-Term Debt



6.0% Senior Notes



On June 27, 2017, j2 Cloud Services, LLC (“J2 Cloud”) and J2 Cloud Co-Obligor (the “Co-Issuer” and together with J2 Cloud, the “Issuers”), wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, completed the issuance and sale of $650 million aggregate principal amount of their 6.0% senior notes due in 2025 (the “6.0% Senior Notes”) in a private placement offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
The 6.0% Senior Notes are presented as long-term debt, net of deferred issuance costs, on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2019.
The 6.0% Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 6.0% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2018.
The 6.0% Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2025, and are senior unsecured obligations of the Issuers and are guaranteed on an unsecured basis by certain subsidiaries of J2 Cloud (as defined in the Indenture agreement dated June 27, 2017, the “Indenture”).
If J2 Cloud or any of its restricted subsidiaries acquires or creates a domestic restricted subsidiary, other than an insignificant subsidiary (as defined in the Indenture), after the issue date, or any insignificant subsidiary ceases to fit within the definition of insignificant subsidiary, such restricted subsidiary is required to unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, on an unsecured basis, the Issuers’ obligations under the 6.0% Senior Notes.
The Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at any time on or after July 15, 2020 at specified redemption prices plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
Before July 15, 2020, in connection with certain equity offerings, the Issuers also may redeem up to 35% of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 106.0% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding the redemption date.
In addition, at any time prior to July 15, 2020, the Issuers may redeem some or all of the 6.0% Senior Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date, plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.
The Indenture contains certain restrictive and other covenants applicable to J2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries including, but not limited to, restrictions on (i) paying dividends or making distributions on J2 Cloud’s membership interests or repurchasing J2 Cloud’s membership interests; (ii) making certain restricted payments; (iii) creating liens or entering into sale and leaseback transactions; (iv) entering into transactions with affiliates; (v) merging or consolidating with another company; and (vi) transferring and selling assets.
These covenants include certain exceptions.
Restricted payments, specifically dividend payments, are applicable only if J2 Cloud and subsidiaries designated as restricted subsidiaries has a leverage ratio of greater than 3.0 to 1.0.
In addition, if such leverage ratio is in excess of 3.0 to 1.0, the restriction on restricted payments is subject to various exceptions, including an exception for the payment of restricted payments up to $75 million.
These contractual provisions did not, as of September 30, 2019, restrict J2 Cloud’s ability to pay dividends to J2 Global, Inc.
The company is in compliance with its debt covenants as of September 30, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the 6.0% Senior Notes was approximately $687.6 million and $645.5 million, respectively, and was based on the quoted market prices of debt instruments with similar terms, credit rating and maturities of the 6.0% Senior Notes which are Level 2 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
3.25% Convertible Notes



On June 10, 2014, J2 Global issued $402.5 million aggregate principal amount of 3.25% convertible senior notes due June 15, 2029 (the “Convertible Notes”).
The Convertible Notes bear interest at a rate of 3.25% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
Beginning with the six-month interest period commencing on June 15, 2021, the Company must pay contingent interest on the Convertible Notes during any six-month interest period if the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes for each of the five trading days immediately preceding the first day of such interest period equals or exceeds $1,300.
Any contingent interest payable on the Convertible Notes will be in addition to the regular interest payable on the Convertible Notes.
-27-



Holders may surrender their Convertible Notes for conversion at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the maturity date only if one or more of the following conditions is satisfied: (i) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2014 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing sale price of J2 Global common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the calendar quarter immediately preceding the calendar quarter in which the conversion occurs is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price of the Convertible Notes on each such trading day; (ii) during the five consecutive business day period following any ten consecutive trading day period in which the trading price for the Convertible Notes for each such trading day was less than 98% of the product of (a) the closing sale price of J2 Global common stock on each such trading day and (b) the applicable conversion rate on each such trading day; (iii) if J2 Global calls any or all of the Convertible Notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the business day prior to the redemption date; (iv) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events; or (v) during either the period beginning on, and including, March 15, 2021 and ending on, but excluding, June 20, 2021 or the period beginning on, and including, March 15, 2029 and ending on, but excluding, the maturity date.
J2 Global will settle conversions of Convertible Notes by paying or delivering, as the case may be, cash, shares of J2 Global common stock or a combination thereof at J2 Global’s election.
As of September 30, 2019, the conversion rate is 14.7632 shares of J2 Global common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which represents a conversion price of approximately $67.74 per share of J2 Global common stock.
The conversion rate is subject to adjustment for certain events as set forth in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, but will not be adjusted for accrued interest.
In addition, following certain corporate events that occur on or prior to June 20, 2021, J2 Global will increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with such a corporate event.
J2 Global may not redeem the Convertible Notes prior to June 20, 2021.
On or after June 20, 2021, J2 Global may redeem for cash all or part of the Convertible Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date.
No sinking fund is provided for the Convertible Notes.
Holders have the right to require J2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes on each of June 15, 2021 and June 15, 2024 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the relevant repurchase date.
In addition, if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture governing the Convertible Notes, occurs prior to the maturity date, holders may require J2 Global to repurchase for cash all or part of their Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date.
The Convertible Notes are the Company’s general senior unsecured obligations and rank: (i) senior in right of payment to any of the Company’s future indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Convertible Notes; (ii) equal in right of payment to the Company’s existing and future unsecured indebtedness that is not so subordinated; (iii) effectively junior in right of payment to any of the Company’s secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and (iv) structurally junior to all existing and future indebtedness (including trade payables) incurred by the Company’s subsidiaries.
Accounting for the Convertible Notes



In accordance with ASC 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, convertible debt that can be settled for cash is required to be separated into the liability and equity component at issuance, with each component assigned a value.
The value assigned to the liability component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of similar debt without the conversion feature.
The difference between the cash proceeds and estimated fair value of the liability component, representing the value of the conversion premium assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount on the issuance date.
This debt discount is amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021.
J2 Global estimated the borrowing rates of similar debt without the conversion feature at origination to be 5.79% for the Convertible Notes and determined the debt discount to be $59.0 million.
As a result, a conversion premium after tax of $37.7 million was recorded in additional paid-in capital.
The aggregate debt discount is amortized as interest expense over the period from the issuance date through the first stated repurchase date on June 15, 2021, which management believes is the expected life of the Convertible Notes using an interest rate of 5.81%.
As of September 30, 2019, the remaining period over which the unamortized debt discount will be amortized is 1.7 years.
-28-



The Convertible Notes are carried at face value less any unamortized debt discount and debt issuance costs.
The fair value of the Convertible Notes at each balance sheet date is determined based on recent quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the Convertible Notes, which are Level 1 inputs (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
If such information is not available, the fair value is determined using cash-flow models of the scheduled payments discounted at market interest rates for comparable debt without the conversion feature.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of the Convertible Notes was approximately $572.6 million and $457.0 million, respectively.
Credit Facility



During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company drew down $185.0 million and repaid $57.0 million under its Credit facility.
Long-term debt as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 consists of the following (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



9.Leases



J2 Global leases certain facilities and equipment under non-cancelable operating and finance leases which expire at various dates through 2027.
Office and equipment leases are typically for terms of three to five years and generally provide renewal options for terms up to an additional five years.
Some of the Company’s leases include options to terminate within one year.
In certain agreements in which the Company leases office space where the Company is the tenant, it subleases the site to various other companies through a sublease agreement.
The Company has adopted the new lease standard and related amendments as of January 1, 2019 using the optional transitional method.
Results for reporting periods beginning after the adoption date are presented under Topic 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company’s historic accounting under ASC 840.
Finance leases are not material to the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements and are therefore not included in the disclosures.
Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 and its related Updates, the Company recorded approximately $72.0 million of right-of-use assets and approximately $75.0 million of operating lease liabilities.
The components of lease expense were as follows for the three and nine months ended (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-29-



Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other supplemental operating lease information consists of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Maturities of operating lease liabilities as of September 30, 2019 were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-30-



Rental expense for operating leases classified under ASC 840 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $5.1 million and $15.4 million, respectively, and was predominantly recorded within general and administrative expenses.
As of December 31, 2018, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases (with initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year) are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sublease



Total sublease income for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $0.9 million and $0.7 million, respectively, and was $2.4 million and $1.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Total estimated aggregate sublease income to be received in the future is $10.5 million.
Significant Judgments



Discount Rate



The majority of the J2 Global’s leases are discounted using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate as the rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable.
Options



The lease term is generally the minimum noncancelable period of the lease.
The Company does not include option periods unless the Company determined it is reasonably certain of exercising the option at inception or when a triggering event occurs.
Practical Expedients



As a practical expedient, the Company has not separated lease components from nonlease components for its real property operating leases.
Certain of the Company’s leases contain nonlease components such as maintenance and certain utility costs.
In addition, the Company elected and applied the available transition practical expedients upon adoption.
By electing these practical expedients, the Company did:



•not reassess whether expired or existing contracts contain leases under the new definition of a lease;



•not reassess lease classification for expired or existing leases; and



•



not reassess whether previously capitalized initial direct costs would qualify for capitalization under Topic 842.
-31-



On February 17, 2011, Emmanuel Pantelakis (“Pantelakis”) filed suit against a J2 Global affiliate in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (No.
11-50673), alleging that the J2 Global affiliate breached a contract relating to Pantelakis’s use of the Campaigner service.
The J2 Global affiliate filed a responsive pleading on March 23, 2011 and responses to undertakings on July 16, 2012.
On November 6, 2012, Pantelakis filed a second amended statement of claim, reframing his lawsuit as a negligence action.
The J2 Global affiliate filed an amended statement of defense on April 8, 2013.
Discovery has closed, with the exception of one issue.
There is an anticipated trial date of February 2021.
On January 21, 2016, Davis Neurology, P.A.
filed a putative class action against two J2 Global affiliates in the Circuit Court for the County of Pope, State of Arkansas (58-cv-2016-40), alleging violations of the TCPA.
The case was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas (No.
4:16-cv-00682).
On March 20, 2017, the District Court granted a motion for judgment on the pleadings filed by the J2 Global affiliates and dismissed all claims against the J2 Global affiliates.
On July 23, 2018, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the judgment and remanded to district court with instructions to return the case to state court.
On January 29, 2019, after further appeals were exhausted, the case was remanded to the Arkansas state court.
On April 1, 2019, the state court granted a motion for class certification filed by the plaintiff in 2016.
Because the prior removal to federal court had deprived the state court of jurisdiction, the J2 Global affiliates had not yet filed an opposition brief to the 2016 motion when the state court granted the motion.
The J2 Global affiliates appealed the order.
On July 15, 2019, the J2 Global affiliates removed the case to federal court pursuant to the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005.
The plaintiff has moved to remand and the J2 Global affiliates have opposed the motion.
Credit Agreement



On January 7, 2019, J2 Cloud Services, LLC entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with certain lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively, the “Lenders”) and MUFG Union Bank, N.A., as sole lead arranger and as administrative agent for the Lenders (the “Agent”).
Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, the Lenders have provided J2 Cloud Services with a credit facility of $100.0 million (the “Credit Facility”) with an option to request an increase of up to $50.0 million.
On July 1, 2019, the Company increased its Credit Facility to $150.0 million.
On August 16, 2019, the Company and MUFG Union Bank entered into the Second Amendment with respect to the Credit Agreement.
As of September 30, 2019, $128.0 million was outstanding under the Credit Facility.
At J2 Cloud’s option, amounts borrowed under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at either (i) a base rate equal to the greatest of (x) the Federal Funds Effective Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1% per annum, (y) the rate of interest per annum most recently announced by the Agent as its U.S. Dollar “Reference Rate” and (z) one month LIBOR plus 1.00% or (ii) a rate per annum equal to LIBOR divided by 1.00 minus the LIBOR Reserve Requirements (as defined in the Credit Agreement), in each case, plus an applicable margin.
The applicable margin relating to any base rate loan will range from 0.50% to 1.50% and the applicable margin relating to any LIBOR loan will range from 1.50% to 2.50%, in each case, depending on the total leverage ratio of J2 Cloud.
The final maturity of the Credit Facility will occur on January 7, 2024.
J2 Cloud is permitted to make voluntary prepayments of the Credit Facility at any time without payment of a premium or penalty.
The obligations under the Credit Facility and certain cash management are and will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by certain of J2 Cloud’s existing and subsequently acquired or organized direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries pursuant to a guarantee agreement and secured by a lien on the equity interests of certain of J2 Cloud’s foreign subsidiaries.
-32-



The Credit Agreement contains financial maintenance covenants, including (i) a maximum total leverage ratio as of the last date of any fiscal quarter not to exceed 3.00:1.00 for J2 Cloud and its restricted subsidiaries; (ii) a maximum total leverage ratio as of the last date of any fiscal quarter not to exceed 3.25:1.00 for J2 and its restricted subsidiaries; and (iii) a minimum EBITDA of not less than $50.0 million for any fiscal quarter for J2 Cloud and its restricted subsidiaries.
The Credit Agreement also contains restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, J2 Cloud’s and its restricted subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness, create, incur or assume liens, consolidate, merge, liquidate or dissolve, pay dividends or make other distributions or other restricted payments, make or hold any investments, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, sell assets other than on terms specified by the Credit Agreement, amend the terms of certain other indebtedness and organizational documents and change their lines of business and fiscal years, in each case, subject to customary exceptions.
The Credit Agreement also sets forth customary events of default, including, among other things, the failure to make timely payments under the Credit Facility, the failure to satisfy certain covenants, cross-default and cross-acceleration to other material debt for borrowed money, the occurrence of a change of control and specified events of bankruptcy and insolvency.
As of September 30, 2019, these debt issuance costs, net of amortization, were $0.4 million.
The related interest expense was $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and $2.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The Company has a $21.6 million reserve established for these matters.
11.Income Taxes



The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate adjusted for discrete interim period tax impacts.
The Company’s effective tax rate was 17.0% and 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 15.7% and 22.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Income before income taxes included income from domestic operations of $34.6 million and $4.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and income from foreign operations of $78.9 million and $100.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had $50.8 million and $59.6 million, respectively, in liabilities for uncertain income tax positions.
Cash paid for income taxes net of refunds received was $38.2 million and $21.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company’s prepaid taxes were $3.6 million and zero at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
12.Stockholders’ Equity



Common Stock Repurchase Program



In February 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the repurchase of up to five million shares of our common stock through February 20, 2013 (the “2012 Program”) which was subsequently extended through February 20, 2020.
In November 2018 and May 2019, the Company entered into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans with a broker to facilitate the repurchase program.
600,000 shares were repurchased under the share repurchase program in 2018 at an aggregate cost of $42.5 million and were subsequently retired in March 2019.
During the nine month period ended September 30, 2019, the Company repurchased 197,870 shares under this program at an aggregate cost of $16.0 million, which were subsequently retired.
Cumulatively at September 30, 2019, 2.9 million shares were repurchased at an aggregate cost of $117.1 million (including an immaterial amount of commission fees).
As a result of the purchase of J2 Global common stock through the Company’s share repurchase program, the number of shares available for purchase under the 2012 Program is 1,140,819 shares of J2 Global common stock.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2019, the Company purchased 9,053 shares from plan participants for this purpose.
Dividends



The following is a summary of each dividend declared during fiscal year 2019 and 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Future dividends are subject to Board approval.
Based on the significant number of current investment opportunities within the Company’s portfolio of businesses and the historic returns from prior investments, the Board of Directors suspended dividend payments for the foreseeable future after the June 4, 2019 payment.
Each plan is described below.
-34-



The 2007 Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other share-based awards.
4,500,000 shares of J2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2007 Plan purposes.
Options under the 2007 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the fair market value of J2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for incentive stock options and not less than 85% of the fair market value of J2 Global’s common stock on the date of grant for non-statutory stock options.
The 2007 Plan terminated on February 14, 2017.
4,200,000 shares of J2 Global common stock are authorized to be used for 2015 Plan purposes.
Options under the 2015 Plan may be granted at exercise prices determined by the Board of Directors, provided that the exercise prices shall not be less than the higher of the par value or 100% of the fair market value of J2 Global’s common stock subject to the option on the date the option is granted.
As of September 30, 2019, 423,000 shares underlying options and 22,689 shares of restricted stock units were outstanding under the 2015 Plan.
All stock option grants are approved by “outside directors” within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m).
Stock Options



The following table represents stock option activity for the nine months ended September 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The total intrinsic values of options exercised during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $8.0 million and $3.6 million, respectively.
The Company recognized $0.2 million and $0.2 million of compensation expense related to stock options for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $0.7 million and $0.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, unrecognized stock compensation related to non-vested stock options granted under each of the share-based compensation plans approximated $7.1 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
Unrecognized stock compensation expense related to non-vested stock options granted under these plans is expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted-average period of 6.2 years (i.e., the remaining requisite service period).
Fair Value Disclosure



J2 Global uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the fair value of each option grant.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant.
The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.
Estimated forfeiture rates were 13.21% and 11.71% as of September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
-35-



 Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units



J2 Global has awarded restricted stock and restricted stock units to its Board of Directors and senior staff pursuant to certain share-based compensation plans.
Vesting periods are approximately one year for awards to members of the Company’s Board of Directors, five years for senior staff (excluding market-based awards discussed below) and eight years for the Chief Executive Officer.
Restricted Stock - Awards with Market Conditions



J2 Global has awarded certain key employees market-based restricted stock awards pursuant to the 2015 Plan.
Stock-based compensation expense related to an award with a market condition will be recognized over the requisite service period using the graded-vesting method regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service period has been completed.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the Company awarded 74,051 and 473,501 market-based restricted stock awards, respectively.
The per share weighted average grant-date fair values of the market-based restricted stock awards granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $69.99 and $52.95, respectively.
The weighted-average fair values of market-based restricted stock awards granted have been estimated utilizing the following assumptions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restricted stock award activity for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 is set forth below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restricted stock unit award activity for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 is set forth below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-36-



The Company recognized $5.9 million and $7.5 million of compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $16.7 million and $20.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had unrecognized share-based compensation cost of approximately $51.9 million and $61.6 million, respectively, associated with these awards.
This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 5.2 years for awards and 3.3 years for units.
The price of the J2 Global common stock purchased under the Purchase Plan for the offering periods is equal to 85% of the lesser of the fair market value of a share of common stock of the Company on the beginning or the end of the offering period.
J2 Global determined that a plan provision exists which allows for the more favorable of two exercise prices, commonly referred to as a “look-back” feature.
The purchase price discount and the look-back feature cause the Purchase Plan to be compensatory and the Company to recognize compensation expense.
The compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
The Company used the Black-Scholes option pricing model to calculate the estimated fair value of the purchase right issued under the ESPP.
The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a term equal to the expected term of the option assumed at the date of grant.
The Company uses an annualized dividend yield based upon the per share dividends declared by its Board of Directors.
Estimated forfeiture rates were 0.78% and 0.10% as of September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, 32,154 and 1,781 shares were purchased under the Purchase Plan, respectively.
Cash received upon the issuance of J2 Global common stock under the Purchase Plan was $2.0 million and $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company recognized $0.3 million and $0.3 million of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $1.0 million and $0.4 million of compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The compensation expense related to the Purchase Plan has been estimated utilizing the following assumptions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-37-



14.Earnings Per Share



The components of basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows (in thousands, except share and per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(a) Represents unvested share-based payment awards that contain certain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid).
(b) 



Represents the incremental shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes due June 15, 2029 by applying the treasury stock method when the average stock price exceeds the conversion price of the Convertible Notes (see Note 8 - Long Term Debt).
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were zero options outstanding, respectively, which were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock.
15.
Segment Information



In accordance with ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting: (Topic 280), the Company’s businesses are based on the organizational structure used by the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance.
The CODM views the Company as two businesses: Cloud Services and Digital Media.
However, in accordance with the aggregation criteria within ASC Topic 280, J2 Global’s operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable segments: (i) Fax and Martech (formerly Email Marketing); (ii) Voice, Backup, Security, and Consumer Privacy and Protection; and (iii) Digital Media.
Prior period segment information has been retrospectively revised to reflect the Company’s new reportable segments, as disclosed in the Company’s audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018.
In connection with the Highwinds Capital, Inc. and Cloak Holdings, LLC acquisition in the second quarter of 2019 (see Note 4 - Business Acquisitions), the Company renamed its Voice, Backup and Security reportable segment to include its newly acquired consumer privacy and protection business, now the Voice, Backup, Security and Consumer Privacy and Protection segment.
The Company’s Digital Media business is driven primarily by advertising and subscription revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
-38-



The accounting policies of the businesses are the same as those described in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation.
Accordingly, the following segment information is presented for Cloud Services and Digital Media.
Geographic information about the U.S. and all other countries for the reporting periods is presented below.
Such information attributes revenues based on jurisdictions where revenues are reported (in thousands).
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



16.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income



The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated balances of other comprehensive loss, net of tax, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated balances of other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



17.Subsequent Events



None.
-42-
