Item 2.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.
To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview.
Our products are sold in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA; and Asia Pacific, or APAC.
We sell our high-performance network products and service offerings across routing, switching, and security technologies.
In addition to our products, we offer our customers services, including maintenance and support, professional services, and education and training programs.
Our products and services address high-performance network requirements for our customers within our verticals: Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise who view their network as critical to their success.
We believe our silicon, systems, and software represent innovations that transform the economics and experience of networking, helping our customers achieve superior performance, greater choice, and flexibility, while reducing overall total cost of ownership.
Further, our intent is to expand our software business by introducing new software solutions to our product portfolio that simplify the operation of networks, and allow our customers across our key verticals flexibility in consumption and deployment.
We believe the network needs for our customers in our Cloud, Service Provider, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and are adopting cloud architectures for their infrastructure and service delivery, such as large public and private data centers and service provider edge data centers, for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency.
36

We remain confident in our strategy and we are executing against our innovation roadmap, as each of our industry verticals transitions to cloud architectures.
In the second quarter of 2019, we continued to execute on our product and solutions strategy and announced a cloud-managed version of our SD-WAN solution.
Our Contrail Service Orchestration now gives enterprises a simple way to manage and secure the WAN infrastructure and Branch LAN and Wi-Fi networks.
During the quarter we released our PTX10003 router that is 400-gig Ethernet, or 400G, ready, and our QFX5220 switch.
On April 1, 2019, we acquired Mist Systems, Inc., or Mist, a company that provides cloud-managed wireless networks powered by artificial intelligence.
We believe that the acquisition of Mist will enhance our enterprise networking portfolio by combining Mist’s next-generation Wireless local area network platform, or WLAN, with our wired LAN, software-defined wide area network solution, or SD-WAN, and security solutions to deliver integrated end-to-end user and information technology, or IT, experiences.
In the second quarter of 2019, we experienced weakness within our Service Provider vertical due to timing of deployments, but we believe our relationships remain strong.
With the availability of our new MX 5G line cards, our Contrail Orchestration platform and our partnership with Ericsson, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on our Service Provider customers' 5G and other Telco product initiatives.
We expect Service Provider to be down in the year 2019 as compared to 2018.
In the second quarter of 2019, Enterprise decreased primarily due to timing of our customers' deployment cycle.
In the second quarter of 2019, we experienced improved trends within our Cloud vertical primarily due to an acceleration of certain wide area deployments, which had previously been proceeding at a slower rate.
In the near-term, Cloud deployment cycles remain difficult to predict.
We are taking a number of actions that we believe will help Juniper achieve year-over-year revenue growth in the fourth quarter of 2019 such as: (1) introducing new product offerings which include new MX line cards to capitalize on 5G carrier initiatives, 400G platforms to capture data center footprint, and new enhancements to our Contrail Enterprise Multicloud platform that make it simpler and more cost effective; (2) transitioning our sales organization to better align with our sales strategy; and (3) monetizing our software offerings through subscriptions.
Further, we believe the 400G upgrade cycle, 5G deployments, and enterprise multicloud initiatives each represent large opportunities where we are well positioned to benefit over the next several years.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, for a full description of the recently adopted accounting standards and recent accounting standards not yet adopted, including the actual and expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference.
39

Results of Operations



Revenues



The following table presents net revenues by product and service, customer vertical(*), and geographic region (in millions, except percentages): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________________________



(*) Certain insignificant prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.
Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared with the Three Months Ended June 30, 2018



Product net revenues decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to Service Provider and Enterprise, impacting routing and switching.
Routing and switching revenue decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in our Service Provider vertical resulting from lower net revenues from our MX product family, and a decrease in our Enterprise vertical resulting from lower net revenues from our QFX product family.
Service net revenues increased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts.
40

Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared with the Six Months Ended June 30, 2018



Product net revenues decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to Service Provider and Cloud, impacting routing and switching.
Routing and switching revenue decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in our Service Provider vertical resulting from lower net revenues from our MX product family, and a decrease in our Cloud vertical resulting in lower net revenues from our QFX product family.
Service net revenues increased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts.
For example, the United States imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China, which includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States.
Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared with the Three Months Ended June 30, 2018



Product gross margin



Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to higher amortization of intangible assets associated with the recent acquisition of Mist, lower revenue, partially offset by growth in our software revenue.
Service gross margin 



Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues increased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower service delivery costs and higher revenue.
Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared with the Six Months Ended June 30, 2018



Product gross margin



Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower revenue, partially offset by growth in our software revenue.
41

Service gross margin 



Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues increased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to lower service delivery costs and a one-time recovery of goods and services tax.
Operating Expenses



The following table presents operating expenses (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________



N/M - Not meaningful



Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared with the Three Months Ended June 30, 2018



During the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, total operating expenses increased primarily due to higher restructuring charges in connection with a restructuring plan that was initiated in the first quarter of 2019 (the "2019 Restructuring Plan").
During the second quarter of 2019, the Company amended the 2019 Restructuring Plan and undertook certain further actions that resulted in additional severance, additional facility consolidation, and contract termination costs.
The increase in total operating expenses was partially offset by lower personnel-related expenses, driven by a decrease in variable compensation expense, specifically in sales and marketing, or S&M, and lower salaries and wages driven by a decrease in headcount as a result of restructuring actions.
Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared with the Six Months Ended June 30, 2018



During the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, total operating expenses decreased primarily due to lower personnel-related expenses, driven by a decrease in share-based compensation expense, specifically in research and development, or R&D, and lower salaries and wages driven by a decrease in headcount as a result of restructuring actions, specifically in S&M.
Our general and administrative increased primarily due to costs related to the acquisition of Mist Systems.
The decrease in total operating expenses was partially offset by higher restructuring charges.
42

Other Expense, Net 



The following table presents other expense, net (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________________



N/M - Not meaningful



Three Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared with the Three Months Ended June 30, 2018



Total other expense, net decreased during the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to a decrease in interest expense, as a result of lower total debt, and an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields.
Six Months Ended June 30, 2019 compared with the Six Months Ended June 30, 2018



Total other expense, net decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2018, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields.
43

Income Tax Provision



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effective tax rate increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same periods in 2018, primarily due to a change in the level of discrete items in the comparative period.
On July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, or the Court, issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to share-based compensation.
On August 7, 2018, the Court withdrew its opinion to allow time for a reconstituted panel to confer.
On June 7, 2019, the Court upheld the cost-sharing regulations, subject to the right of appeal by Altera.
On July 22, 2019, Altera petitioned the Court for rehearing.
If a judicial decision against Altera had been finalized in the reporting period, our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 would have been higher.
As a result of recommendations by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, certain countries in EMEA and APAC have either enacted new corporate tax legislation or are considering enacting such legislation in the near future.
We expect the effect of these reform measures to potentially impact long-standing tax principles, particularly in regard to transfer pricing.
44

Liquidity and Capital Resources 



We have funded our business primarily through our operating activities and the issuance of our long-term debt.
The following table presents our capital resources (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Summary of Cash Flows 



The following table summarizes cash flow activity from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operations decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018.
The decrease was primarily due to lower cash collections from customers as a result of lower invoicing, partially offset by a decrease in cash payments to suppliers.
Investing Activities



Net cash used in investing activities was $556.9 million during the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $1,083.3 million for the same period in 2018.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, the payment for the acquisition of Mist was $270.9 million and net purchases of investments was $230.8 million.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, net proceeds from sales, maturities and redemptions of investments was $1,194.1 million, primarily from the liquidation of repatriated offshore investments to fund the accelerated share repurchase program ("2018 ASR") discussed below.
Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities decreased during the six months ended June 30, 2019, compared to the same period in 2018.
The decrease was primarily due to the payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the 2018 ASR during the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the payment of $300.0 million pursuant to a new accelerated share repurchase program ("2019 ASR") for the same period in 2019 as described further below, partially offset by the payment of $350.0 million for our Senior Notes that matured during the six months ended June 30, 2019.
45

Capital Return



In January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program in February 2018, we entered into the 2018 ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock.
We made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the 2018 ASR to repurchase our common stock.
The aggregate number of shares ultimately repurchased of 29.3 million shares of common stock was determined based on a volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.
On April 29, 2019, we entered into the 2019 ASR, to repurchase an aggregate of approximately $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock.
We made an up-front payment of $300.0 million pursuant to the 2019 ASR and received and retired an initial 8.6 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate price of $240.0 million based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction.
As of June 30, 2019, there was approximately $1.0 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
See Note 10, Equity, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion of our share purchase program.
We declared and paid cash dividends of $0.19 per share, totaling $65.5 million and $131.7 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board or an authorized committee thereof.
See Note 16, Subsequent Event, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to June 30, 2019.
Revolving Credit Facility



In April 2019, we entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million, subject to the lenders' approval.
The Prior Revolving Credit Facility was terminated substantially concurrently with our entering into the Revolving Credit Facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility will terminate in April 2024, subject to two one-year maturity extension options, on the terms and conditions as set forth in the credit agreement.
As of June 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all covenants in the Credit Agreement, and no amounts were outstanding.
Following the enactment of the Tax Act, we repatriated approximately $3.0 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments balance from outside of the U.S. as of June 30, 2019.
We expect the new territorial tax system to provide us with lower cost access to nearly all of our global free cash flow on an ongoing basis.
Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.
See Note 16, Subsequent Event, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for our subsequent events impacting liquidity.
46
