PART II — OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings



The information set forth under the “Legal Proceedings” section in Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1A.
For example, we, and many companies in our industry, experience adverse seasonal fluctuations in customer spending, particularly in the first quarter.
Such adjustments may be difficult or impossible to execute in the short or medium term.
Such a decline could also occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenues and/or earnings guidance.
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In fiscal year 2017, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2016, primarily due to lower product net revenues and product mix, resulting from the year-over-year decline in routing revenues, our customers' architectural shifts, and higher costs of certain memory components.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue.
We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
In addition, there is an ongoing trend toward consolidation in the industry in which our customers and partners operate.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
In addition, in recent years, there has been movement towards consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, CenturyLink, Inc.'s acquisition of Level 3 Communications, Inc., Vodafone India’s acquisition of Idea Cellular Ltd. and T-Mobile US, Inc.'s proposed acquisition of Sprint Corp.) and that consolidation trend has continued.
Certain telecommunications companies have also moved towards vertical consolidation through acquisitions of media and content companies, such as Verizon’s acquisition of Yahoo, AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner, and Comcast's acquisition of Sky.
Economic weakness or uncertainty, customer financial difficulties, and constrained spending on network expansion and enterprise infrastructure have in the past resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased revenues and earnings.
Such factors could make it difficult to accurately forecast revenues and operating results and could negatively affect our ability to provide accurate forecasts to our contract manufacturers and manage our contract manufacturer relationships and other expenses.
43

In addition, economic instability or uncertainty, as well as continued turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world, have, and may continue to, put pressure on economic conditions, which has led and could lead, to reduced demand for our products, to delays or reductions in network expansions or infrastructure projects, and/or higher costs of production.
More generally-speaking, economic weakness may also lead to longer collection cycles for payments due from our customers, an increase in customer bad debt, restructuring initiatives and associated expenses, and impairment of investments.
Furthermore, instability in the global markets may adversely impact the ability of our customers to adequately fund their expected expenditures, which could lead to delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
From time to time, we have increased investment in our business by, for example, increasing headcount, acquiring companies, and increasing our investment in R&D, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business.
Conversely, in 2017, 2018, and 2019, we initiated restructuring plans to realign our workforce as a result of organizational and leadership changes, align our execution priorities, increase operational efficiencies, and to consolidate facilities which resulted in restructuring charges in each of these years.
Some of our expenses related to such efforts are fixed costs that cannot be rapidly or easily adjusted in response to fluctuations in our business or numbers of employees.
Rapid changes in the size, alignment or organization of our workforce, including sales account coverage, could adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver products and services as planned or impair our ability to realize our current or future business and financial objectives.
Competition is intense in the markets that we serve.
The routing and switching markets have historically been dominated by Cisco, with competition coming from other companies such as Nokia Corporation, Arista, HPE, and Huawei.
In the security market, we face intense competition from Cisco and Palo Alto Networks, as well as companies such as Check Point, and Fortinet.
Further, a number of other small public and private companies have products or have announced plans for new products to address the same challenges and markets that our products address.
In addition, actual or speculated consolidation among competitors, or the acquisition by, or of, our partners and/or resellers by competitors can increase the competitive pressures faced by us as customers may delay spending decisions or not purchase our products at all.
A number of our competitors have substantially greater resources and can offer a wider range of products and services for the overall network equipment market than we do.
In addition, some of our competitors have become more integrated, including through consolidation and vertical integration, and offer a broader range of products and services, which could make their solutions more attractive to our customers.
Many of our competitors sell networking products as bundled solutions with other IT products, such as compute and storage systems.
A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process.
As a result, the sales cycle may be lengthy.
In particular, customers making critical decisions regarding the design and implementation of large network deployments may engage in very lengthy procurement processes that may delay or impact expected future orders.
Throughout the sales cycle, we may spend considerable time educating and providing information to prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products.
Even after making the decision to purchase, customers may deploy our products slowly and deliberately.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.
Customers with large networks usually expand their networks in large increments on a periodic basis.
Accordingly, we may receive purchase orders for significant dollar amounts on an irregular basis.
The timing of product orders and/or our reliance on revenue from sales of certain software or subscriptions and professional, support and maintenance services may cause us to recognize revenue in a different period than the one in which a transaction takes place.
Due to the cost, complexity and custom nature of configurations required by our customers, we generally build our network equipment products as orders are received.
The volume of orders received late in any given fiscal quarter remains unpredictable.
In addition, services revenue accounts for a significant portion of our revenue, comprising 33%, 31%, and 29% of total revenue in fiscal year 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively.
Sales of new or renewal professional services, support and maintenance contracts may decline and/or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including end-customers’ level of satisfaction with our products and services, the prices of our products and services or those offered by our competitors, and reductions in our end-customers’ spending levels.
We recognize professional services, support and maintenance revenue periodically over the term of the relevant service period.
The introduction of new software products and services is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business, and certain software revenues may be recognized periodically over the term of the relevant use period or subscription period.
As a result, certain software, subscription and support and maintenance revenue we report each fiscal quarter is the recognition of deferred revenue from contracts entered into during previous fiscal quarters.
Consequently, a decline in such new or renewed contracts in any one fiscal quarter will not be fully or immediately reflected in revenue in that fiscal quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future fiscal quarters.
Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in new or renewed sales of certain software products, subscriptions or support and maintenance is not reflected in full in our operating results until future periods.
Also, it is difficult for us to rapidly increase such software or services revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from those software, subscription and support and maintenance contracts must be recognized over the applicable period.
Additionally, we determine our operating expenses largely on the basis of anticipated revenues and technology roadmap and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short and medium term.
A substantial portion of our business and revenues depends on the growth of secure IP infrastructure and customers that depend on the continued growth of IP services to deploy our products in their networks and IP infrastructures.
As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand (all of which, have in the past, particularly affected telecommunications service providers), spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, a number of our existing customers are evaluating the build-out of their next generation networks.
During the decision-making period when our customers are determining the design of those networks and the selection of the software and equipment they will use in those networks, such customers may greatly 



 45

reduce or suspend their spending on secure IP infrastructure.
For example, in recent years, our switching and routing results were adversely affected by spending delays from our largest Cloud customers, who we believe are in the process of implementing a networking architectural shift.
The duration of the delay is difficult to predict, in part because each Cloud customer will migrate their network architecture based on their own constraints.
We may not be able to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs and opportunities or be able to develop new products, product enhancements or business strategies to meet such technological shifts, needs or opportunities in a timely manner or at all.
For example, the move from traditional wide area network, or WAN, infrastructures towards software-defined WAN, or SD-WAN, has been receiving considerable attention.
In our view, it will take several years to see the full impact of SD-WAN, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine hardware and software elements.
In recent years, we have announced a number of new products and enhancements to our hardware and software products across routing, switching and security.
The introduction of new software products is part of our intended strategy to expand our software business.
We have also begun to disaggregate certain software from certain hardware products, such that customers would be able to purchase or license our hardware and software products independently, which we expect could in time enable our hardware to be deployed with third- party networking applications and services and our software to be used with third-party hardware.
The success of our strategy to expand our software business, including our strategy to disaggregate software from certain hardware products, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including:



•the additional development efforts and costs required to create new software products and/or to make our disaggregated products compatible with multiple technologies;



•the possibility that our new software products or disaggregated products may not achieve widespread customer adoption;



•the possibility that our strategy could erode our revenue and gross margins;



•the impact on our financial results of longer periods of revenue recognition for certain types of software products



 and changes in tax treatment associated with software sales;



•the additional costs associated with regulatory compliance and changes we need to make to our distribution chain in connection with increased software sales;



•the ability of our disaggregated hardware and software products to operate independently and/or to integrate with current and future third-party products; and



•issues with third-party technologies used with our disaggregated products may be attributed to us.
We depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture our products.
Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, these contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price.
In addition, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships.
Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, which could include failing to provide accurate forecasts of our requirements, or if one or more of them experiences delays, disruptions, or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed.
We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future an increase in the expected time required to manufacture our products or ship products.
Such delays could result in supply shortfalls that damage our ability to meet customer demand for those products and could cause our customers to purchase alternative products from our competitors.
Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers or the introduction of new products by us would increase the complexity of our supply chain management.
Moreover, a significant portion of our manufacturing is performed in China and other foreign countries and is therefore subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United States, including import tariffs or regional conflicts.
For example, the United States recently imposed a tariff on networking products imported from China; this includes certain products that we import into and sell within the United States.
In addition, increased costs of production or delays in production caused by any relocation of contract manufacturing facilities could impact the global competitiveness of our products.
We are dependent on sole source and limited source suppliers, including for key components, which makes us susceptible to shortages, quality issues or price fluctuations in our supply chain, and we may face increased challenges in supply chain management in the future.
We rely on single or limited sources for many of our components.
During periods of high demand for electronic products, component shortages are possible, and the predictability of the availability of such components may be limited.
For example, we have recently experienced industry-wide supply constraints related to power management components.
In addition, some components used in our networking solutions have in the past and may in the future experience extended lead times and higher pricing, given the demand in the market.
We maintain product liability insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims.
We have experienced, and from time-to-time may experience, component shortages or quality issues that resulted, or could result, in delays of product shipments, revenue charges that impact our gross margins, and/or warranty or other claims or costs.
We also currently purchase numerous key components, including ASICs and other semiconductor chips, from single or limited sources and many of our component suppliers are concentrated in China and Korea.
In addition, there has been consolidation among certain suppliers of our components.
For example, GLOBALFOUNDRIES acquired IBM’s semiconductor manufacturing business, Avago Technologies Limited acquired Broadcom Corporation and Intel Corporation acquired Altera Corporation.
Consolidation among suppliers can result in the reduction of the number of independent suppliers of components available to us, which could negatively impact our ability to access certain component parts or the prices we have to pay for such parts.
In addition, our suppliers may determine not to continue a business relationship with us for other reasons that may be beyond our control.
Such a disruption could occur as a result of any number of events, including, but not limited to, increases in wages that drive up prices, the imposition of regulations, quotas or embargoes on components, labor stoppages, transportation failures affecting the supply chain and shipment of materials and finished goods, third-party interference in the integrity of the products sourced through the supply chain, the unavailability of raw materials, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, civil unrest, military conflicts, geopolitical developments, war or terrorism and disruptions in utility and other services.
47

The development of alternate sources for components is time-consuming, difficult, and costly.
In addition, the lead times associated with certain components are lengthy and preclude rapid changes in quantities and delivery schedules.
Also, long-term supply and maintenance obligations to customers increase the duration for which specific components are required, which may further increase the risk of component shortages or the cost of carrying inventory.
In the event of a component shortage or supply interruption from these suppliers, we may not be able to develop alternate or second sources in a timely manner.
In addition, the development, licensing, or acquisition of new products in the future may increase the complexity of supply chain management.
Failure to effectively manage the supply of components and products would adversely affect our business.
We provide demand forecasts for our products to our contract manufacturers and original design manufacturers, who order components and plan capacity based on these forecasts.
In addition, some optical modules we use are experiencing faster product transitions than our other products, which increases the risk that we could have excess inventory of those modules.
Conversely, lead times for required materials and components vary significantly and depend on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms, and the demand for each component at a given time.
Given that our contract manufacturers are third-party manufacturers for numerous other companies, if we underestimate our requirements, as we have in certain prior quarters with respect to certain products, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate time, materials, and/or components required to produce our products.
This could increase costs or delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products, resulting in delays in shipments and deferral or loss of revenues and could negatively impact customer satisfaction.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks.
In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties.
The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy.
The growing cyber risk environment means that individuals, companies, and organizations of all sizes, including Juniper, have been and are increasingly subject to the threat of intrusions on their networks and systems by a wide range of actors, including but not limited to nation states, criminal enterprises, and terrorist organizations, on an ongoing and regular basis.
Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our information technology and infrastructure has experienced breaches and may be vulnerable in the future to breach or attacks by computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors or breached due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions.
In addition, hardware, components and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs", vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of our networks or expose us or our products to cyber attacks.
This can be true even for “legacy” products that have been determined to have reached an end of life engineering status but will continue to operate for a limited amount of time.
When vulnerabilities are discovered, we evaluate the risk, apply patches or take other remediation actions as required and notify customers and suppliers when appropriate.
All of this requires significant time and attention from management and our employees.
48

As a result of any actual or perceived breach of network security that occurs in our network or in the network of a customer of our products, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products and our overall reputation could be harmed.
As a large, well known provider of networking products, cyber attackers may specifically target our products or attempt to imitate us or our products in order to compromise a network.
Because the techniques used by attackers, many of whom are highly sophisticated and well-funded, to access or sabotage networks change frequently and generally are not recognized until after they are used, we may be unable to anticipate or immediately detect these techniques or the vulnerabilities they have caused.
The economic costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software systems and security vulnerabilities could be significant and may be difficult to anticipate or measure, because the damage may differ based on the identity and motive of the attacker, which are often difficult to pinpoint.
Additionally, we could be subject to regulatory investigations, potential fines and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches.
We rely on value-added and other resellers, as well as distribution partners, to sell our products, and disruptions to, or our failure to effectively develop and manage, our distribution channel and the processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
Our future success is highly dependent upon establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a variety of value-added and other reseller and distribution partners, including our worldwide strategic partners such as Ericsson, IBM, Dimension Data and NEC Corporation.
The majority of our revenues are derived through value-added resellers and distributors, most of which also sell our competitors’ products, and some of which sell their own competing products.
Our revenues depend in part on the performance of these partners.
Our competitors may in some cases be effective in leveraging their market share positions or in providing incentives to current or potential resellers and distributors to favor their products or to prevent or reduce sales of our products.
If we fail to develop and maintain relationships with our partners, fail to develop new relationships with value-added resellers and distributors in new markets, fail to expand the number of distributors and resellers in existing markets, fail to manage, train or motivate existing value-added resellers and distributors effectively, determine that we cannot continue to do business with these partners for any reason or if these partners are not successful in their sales efforts, sales of our products may decrease, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would suffer.
In addition, we recognize a portion of our revenues at the time we sell products to our distributors.
If these sales are made based on inaccurate or untimely information, the amount or timing of our revenues could be adversely impacted.
They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand.
We are also vulnerable to third parties who illegally distribute or sell counterfeit, stolen or unfit versions of our products, which has happened in the past and could happen in the future.
Such sales could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.
Further, in order to develop and expand our distribution channel, we must continue to offer attractive channel programs to potential partners and scale and improve our processes and procedures that support the channel.
As a result, our programs, processes and procedures may become increasingly complex and inherently difficult to manage.
We have previously entered into OEM agreements with partners pursuant to which they rebrand and resell our products as part of their product portfolios.
These types of relationships are complex and require additional processes and procedures that may be challenging and costly to implement, maintain and manage.
Our failure to successfully manage and develop our distribution channel and the programs, processes and procedures that support it could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products.
We also depend on our global channel partners to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Our ability to process orders and ship products in a timely manner is dependent in part on our business systems and performance of the systems and processes of third parties as well as the interfaces between our systems and the systems of such third parties.
Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively.
Some of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, and the interfaces between the two.
For example, on December 31, 2018, we entered into a Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work with IBM pursuant to which we will outsource significant portions of our IT and other administrative functions following a transition 



 49

period.
These cloud providers, third party providers, and off-site facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, equipment failure, adverse events caused by operator error, cybersecurity attacks and similar events.
In addition, because we lease off-site data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms.
If we have issues receiving and processing data, this may delay our ability to provide products and services to our customers and damage our business.
We also rely upon the performance of the systems and processes of our contract manufacturers to build and ship our products.
If those systems and processes experience interruption or delay, our ability to build and ship our products in a timely manner may be harmed.
Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively.
We have made, and may continue to make, acquisitions in order to enhance our business.
For example, we acquired Mist Systems in 2019, HTBase in 2018 and Cyphort in 2017.
Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, problems combining the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs, liabilities, litigation, and diversion of management's attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions, initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners, and the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any businesses, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire.
The integration of businesses that we may acquire is likely to be a complex, time-consuming, and expensive process and we may not realize the anticipated revenues or other benefits associated with our acquisitions.
We, and certain of our current and former officers and current and former members of our Board of Directors, have been or are subject to various lawsuits.
We have been served with lawsuits related to employment matters, commercial transactions and patent infringement, as well as securities laws.
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, is conducting, and the U.S. Department of Justice, or the DOJ, was previously conducting investigations into possible violations by the Company of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, in a number of countries.
The Company's Audit Committee, with the assistance of independent advisors, conducted a thorough internal review of possible violations of the FCPA, and the Company made improvements in its internal controls and carried out a number of disciplinary actions.
The Company is continuing to fully cooperate with the SEC’s ongoing investigation, and based on the recent communications with the Staff of the SEC, the Company believes it is likely that the Staff of the SEC will seek to bring an enforcement action against the Company.
The Company believes it is probable that it could incur a loss and has established an estimated legal reserve of $12.0 million related to the ongoing SEC investigation.
Litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain.
We therefore cannot predict the duration, scope, outcome or consequences of litigation and government investigations.
In connection with any government investigations, including those in which we are currently involved as described above, if the government takes action against us or we agree to settle the matter, we may be required to pay substantial fines and incur other sanctions, which may be material, and suffer reputational harm.
The lawsuits and investigations are expensive and time-consuming to defend, settle, and/or resolve, and may require us to implement certain remedial measures that could prove costly or disruptive to our business and operations.
Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights.
We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur.
Furthermore, because of the potential for high awards of damages or injunctive relief that are not necessarily predictable, even arguably unmeritorious claims may be settled for significant amounts of money.
As we seek to sell more products to telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies and other large customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or impact the amount of revenues to be recognized.
Telecommunications, cable and cloud service provider companies, which comprise a significant portion of our customer base, and other large companies, generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers.
For example, our customers France Telecom-Orange and Deutsche Telekom AG have formed a company for the purpose of purchasing products from, and negotiating more favorable contractual terms with, suppliers.
Consolidation among such large customers can further increase their buying power and ability to require onerous terms.
In addition, service providers have purchased products from other vendors who promised but failed to deliver certain functionality and/or had products that caused problems or outages in the networks of these customers.
As a result, these customers may request additional features from us and require substantial penalties for failure to deliver such features or may require substantial penalties for any network outages that may be caused by our products.
In addition, increased patent litigation brought against customers by non-practicing entities in recent years, may result, and in some cases has resulted, in customers requesting or requiring vendors to absorb a portion of the costs of such litigation or providing broader indemnification for litigation, each of which could increase our expenses and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Regulation of our industry in general and the telecommunications industry in particular could harm our operating results and future prospects.
We are subject to laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products in a number of areas.
For example, some governments have regulations prohibiting government entities from purchasing security products that do not meet country-specific safety, conformance or security certification criteria or in-country test requirements.
Other regulations that may negatively impact our business include local content or local manufacturing requirements most commonly applicable for government, state-owned enterprise or regulated industry procurements.
These types of regulations are in effect or under consideration in several jurisdictions where we do business.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act includes disclosure requirements applicable to public companies regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, which we refer to collectively as the DRC, and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals.” These minerals are present in our products.
In addition, the European Union reached agreement in late 2016 on an EU-wide conflict 



 51

minerals rule under which most EU importers of tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores will have to conduct due diligence to ensure the minerals do not originate from conflict zones and do not fund armed conflicts.
Large manufacturers also will have to disclose how they plan to monitor their sources to comply with the rules.
The regulation was adopted in 2017 with compliance required by 2021.
In addition, environmental laws and regulations relevant to electronic equipment manufacturing or operations, including laws and regulations governing the hazardous material content of our products and laws relating to the collection of and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment, may adversely impact our business and financial condition.
These laws and regulations include, among others, the European Union, or EU, Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS.
The EU RoHS and the similar laws of other jurisdictions limit the content of certain hazardous materials, such as lead, mercury, and cadmium, in electronic equipment, including our products.
Currently, our products comply with the EU RoHS requirements.
However, certain exemptions are scheduled to lapse.
The lapse of any exemption, further changes to this or other laws, or passage of similar laws in the EU or other jurisdictions, would require us to cease selling non-compliant products and to reengineer our products to use components compatible with these regulations.
This reengineering and component substitution could result in additional costs to us, disrupt our operations or logistics, and result in an adverse impact on our operating results.
In addition, in validating the compliance of our products with applicable hazardous materials restrictions, we rely substantially on affirmations by our component suppliers as to the compliance of their products with respect to those same restrictions.
Additionally, the EU and a number of other jurisdictions have adopted regulations requiring producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume certain responsibilities for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of products when they have reached the end of their useful life.
Finally, the EU REACH regulations regulate the handling of certain chemical substances that may be used in our products.
In addition, as a contractor and subcontractor to U.S. government departments and agencies, we are subject to federal regulations pertaining to our IT systems.
For instance, as a subcontractor to the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, or DFARS, required that our IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls described in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171, or NIST SP 800-171.
The DFARS also requires that we flow the security control requirement down to certain of our own subcontractors.
The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected by changes in regulations relating to the Internet telecommunications industry.
Similarly, while there are currently few laws or regulations that apply directly to access to or commerce on IP networks, future regulations could include sales taxes on products sold via the Internet and Internet service provider access charges.
We could be adversely affected by regulation of IP networks and commerce in any country where we market equipment and services to service providers or cloud provider companies.
Regulations governing the range of services and business models that can be offered by service providers or cloud provider companies could adversely affect those customers' needs for products.
For instance, in December 2017, the U.S. Federal Communications Commission repealed its 2015 regulations governing aspects of fixed broadband networks and wireless networks.
This change in regulatory treatment of networks might impact service provider and cloud provider business models and their need for Internet telecommunications equipment and services.
At the same time, several states have enacted their own laws and regulations governing certain aspects of fixed and wireless networks in the manner of the 2015 FCC regulations.
These laws and regulations enacted by the states are or will be subject to legal challenges from the federal government and/or regulated providers.
Also, many jurisdictions are evaluating or implementing regulations relating to cyber security, supply chain integrity, privacy and data protection, any of which can affect the market and requirements for networking and security equipment.
Governmental regulations and economic sanctions affecting the import or export of products generally or affecting products containing encryption capabilities, in particular, could negatively affect our revenues and operating results.
The United States and various foreign governments have imposed controls and restrictions on the export of, among other things, products that contain or use encryption technology.
Most of our products contain or use encryption technology and, consequently, 



 52

are subject to such controls, requirements and restrictions.
Certain governments, like those of Russia and China, control importation and in-country use of encryption items and technology.
The scope, nature and severity of such controls vary widely across different countries and may change frequently over time.
Increasingly, governments have begun using export and import controls not only to further national security objectives but also to protect local industries and restrict proliferation of locally developed “emerging or foundational technology."
For example, in 2018 the U.S. enacted the Export Control Reform Act, which expands the power of the Commerce Department to use export controls to protect domestic industry and to restrict the export of emerging and foundational technologies not currently subject to controls.
In furtherance of that law, on November 19, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce sought public comment on how to define emerging technologies.
Our ability to market and sell our products overseas may be impacted by such export controls.
In addition, the U.S. and other governments have especially broad sanctions and embargoes prohibiting provision of goods or services to certain countries, and territories, and to certain sanctioned governments, legal entities and individuals.
Some of these restrictions have been imposed not just to protect national security but also to protect domestic industries and to achieve political aims.
For instance, the U.S. Department of Commerce in 2018 added to its Entity List a Chinese semiconductor manufacturer on the express basis that it threatens the viability of U.S. competitors; the Entity List traditionally is used to restrict exports to end users that pose a security risk.
Particularly far reaching and complex are restrictions imposed by the U.S. and EU on exports to Russia and, in particular, to the disputed region of Crimea.
We have implemented systems to detect and prevent sales into these restricted countries or to prohibited entities or individuals, but there can be no assurance that our third party, downstream resellers and distributors will abide by these restrictions or have processes in place to ensure compliance, especially where local government regulation might prohibit adherence to such restrictions.
Certain governments also impose special local content, certification, testing, source code review, escrow and governmental recovery of private encryption keys, or other cybersecurity feature requirements to protect network equipment and software procured by or for the government.
Similar requirements also may be imposed in procurements by state owned entities (“SOE’s”) or even private companies forming part of “critical network infrastructure” or supporting sensitive industries.
For example, China, Vietnam and India have promulgated cybersecurity regulations affecting networking products that may impair our ability to profitably market and sell our products there.
China, in particular, is expected to require implementation of non-standard Chinese encryption algorithms in products sold into certain government, SOE, critical infrastructure and sensitive industry (such as financial institutions) markets.
In the U.S., there are new restrictions on the use of certain Chinese-origin components or systems either (1) in items sold to the U.S. government or (2) in the internal networks of government contractors and subcontractors (even if those networks are not used for government-related projects).
The U.S. government also might restrict or ban the use of certain Chinese-origin components and systems in next generation mobile communications networks (e.g.
5G).
In addition, governments sometimes impose additional taxes on certain imported products.
For example, the United States and Chinese governments each have imposed tariffs on certain products originating from the other country.
In 2018, the United States imposed tariffs on a large variety of products of China origin.
As a result, beginning September 24, 2018, a large portion of Juniper products manufactured in China became subject to a 10% tariff on importation into the U.S.
While the United States government postponed a planned rate increase to 25% while bilateral trade negotiations were on-going, the President announced on May 5, 2019, that the 25% rate would go into effect on May 10, 2019 due to the lack of negotiation progress.
On May 5, 2019 the U.S. President also reiterated his readiness to further expand the scope of the tariffs on Chinese goods if negotiations are not successful; such action could subject an even wider range of Juniper products to tariff on importation into the U.S.
Governmental regulation of encryption or IP networking technology and regulation of imports or exports, or our failure to obtain required import or export approval for our products, or related economic sanctions could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues and operating results.
In addition, failure to comply with such regulations could result in harm to our reputation and ability to compete in international markets, penalties, costs, seizure of assets (including source code) and restrictions on import or export privileges or adversely affect sales to government agencies or government-funded projects.
A wide variety of provincial, state, national, foreign, and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data.
These privacy- and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and 



 53

regulations subject to new or different interpretations.
Further, our legal and regulatory obligations in foreign jurisdictions are subject to unexpected changes, including the potential for regulatory or other governmental entities to enact new or additional laws or regulations, to issues rulings that invalidate prior laws or regulations, or to increase penalties significantly.
Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can delay or impede the development and offering of new products and services.
For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which became effective in May 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance, than the EU laws that previously applied.
Additionally, California recently enacted legislation, the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which will become effective January 1, 2020.
The CCPA will, among other requirements, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and allow such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information.
Legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the CCPA before the effective date.
It remains unclear the extent of the modifications that will be made to the CCPA, or how such modifications will be interpreted.
The effects of the CCPA potentially are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply.
We may also be subject to additional obligations relating to personal data by contract that industry standards apply to our practices.
Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines, damage to our reputation, and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business.
Further, evolving and changing definitions of personal data and personal information, within the EU, the U.S., U.K., and elsewhere, including the classification of IP addresses, machine identification information, location data, and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting business relationships and partnerships that may involve the sharing or uses of data, and may require significant costs, resources, and efforts in order to comply.
Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel.
The supply of highly qualified individuals, in particular engineers in very specialized technical areas, or sales people with specialized industry expertise, is limited and competition for such individuals is intense.
None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term.
The loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, engineers and sales people, and the complexity and time involved in replacing or training new employees, could delay the development and introduction of new products, and negatively impact our ability to market, sell, or support our products.
A number of our team members are foreign nationals who rely on visas and entry permits in order to legally work in the United States and other countries.
In recent years, the United States has increased the level of scrutiny in granting H-1(B), L-1 and other business visas.
In addition, the current U.S. administration has made immigration reform a priority.
Compliance with United States immigration and labor laws could require us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain skilled professionals.
We are required to test intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or more frequently if certain circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit and intangible assets below their carrying values.
As of March 31, 2019, our goodwill was $3,109.3 million and our intangible assets with indefinite lives was $49.0 million.
When the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value of goodwill, or if the carrying amount of an intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value, a charge to operations is recorded.
Either event would result in incremental expenses for that quarter, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred.
We have in the past recorded goodwill impairment charges.
If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future.
We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.
However, any such impairment would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
Our future effective tax rates could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by the following: earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; expiration of, or lapses in, the R&D tax credit laws applicable to us; transfer pricing adjustments related to certain acquisitions, including the license of acquired intangibles under our intercompany R&D cost sharing arrangement; costs related to intercompany restructuring; tax effects of share-based compensation; challenges to our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements; limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense; or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof.
For example, on July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, or the Court, issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to share-based compensation.
On August 7, 2018, the Court withdrew its opinion to allow time for a reconstituted panel to confer.
We are monitoring this case and any impact the final opinion may have on our financial statements.
These changes included a reduction to the federal corporate income tax rate, the current taxation of certain foreign earnings, the imposition of base-erosion prevention measures which may limit the deduction of certain transfer pricing payments, and possible limitations on the deductibility of net interest expense or corporate debt obligations.
The U.S. Department of the Treasury continues to issue Proposed Regulations that affect various components of the Act.
Furthermore, on October 5, 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD, an international association of 35 countries including the U.S., published final proposals under its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, Action Plan.
The BEPS Action Plan includes fifteen Actions to address BEPS in a comprehensive manner and represents a significant change to the international corporate tax landscape.
These proposals, as adopted by countries, may increase tax uncertainty and adversely affect our provision for income taxes.
We generally rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products.
In addition, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, and customers, and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information.
However, we cannot assure you that we have entered into such agreements with all parties who may have or have had access to our confidential information or that the agreements we have entered into will not be breached.
We cannot guarantee that any of the measures we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology.
Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined 



 55

under the laws of the United States.
Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled our success.
We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets.
We conduct significant sales and customer support operations directly and indirectly through our distributors and value-added resellers in countries throughout the world and depend on the operations of our contract manufacturers and suppliers that are located outside of the United States.
In addition, a portion of our R&D and our general and administrative operations are conducted outside the United States.
In some countries, we may experience reduced intellectual property protection.
As a result of our international operations, we are affected by economic, business regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following:



•changes in general IT spending,



•the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection;



•changes or limitations in trade protection laws or other regulatory requirements, which may affect our ability to import or export our products from various countries; 



•laws that restrict sales of products developed or manufactured outside of the country;



•varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations;



•fluctuations in local economies;



•wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market;



•tax policies that could have a business impact;



•import tariffs imposed by the United States and reciprocal tariffs imposed by foreign countries;



•data privacy rules and other regulations that affect cross border data flow; and



•the impact of the following on customer spending patterns: political considerations, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.
In addition, the U.K.’s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, has caused, and may continue to cause, uncertainty in the global markets.
Brexit, if implemented, will take some period of time to complete and could result in regulatory changes that impact our business.
For example, changes to the way service providers conduct business and transmit data between the U.K. and the EU could require us to make changes to the way we handle customer data.
We will also review the impact of any resulting changes to EU or U.K. law that could affect our operations, such as labor policies, financial planning, product manufacturing, and product distribution.
Political and regulatory responses to the vote are still developing and we are in the process of assessing the impact the vote may have on our business as more information becomes available.
There remains significant risk that the U.K. will exit from the EU without agreement between the EU and U.K. on terms addressing customs and trade matters.
If it occurs, this “Hard Brexit” scenario would mean, among other things, that U.K. Customs would have to clear a far greater daily volume of imports than it has ever had to before.
If U.K. Customs is not able to handle such 



 56

increased volume, significant delays in imports may very well result, thereby potentially producing a short-term material adverse effect on our business.
Hard Brexit could result in further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility.
Additional currency volatility could drive a weaker British pound, which increases the cost of goods imported into our U.K. operations and may decrease the profitability of our U.K. operations.
A weaker British pound versus the U.S. dollar also causes local currency results of our U.K. operations to be translated into fewer U.S. dollars during a reporting period.
Our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the United States and other nations.
Such agreements can reduce barriers to international trade and thus the cost of conducting business overseas.
For instance, the United States recently reached a new trilateral trade agreement with the Governments of Canada and Mexico to replace the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
If the United States withdraws from NAFTA and the three countries fail to approve the new agreement, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (U.S.MCA), our cost of doing business within the three countries could increase.
In many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us.
There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners, and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and policies.
Our products are highly technical and complex, are critical to the operation of many networks, and, in the case of our security products, provide and monitor network security and may protect valuable information.
Our products have contained and may contain one or more undetected errors, defects, malware, or security vulnerabilities.
These errors may arise from hardware or software we produce or procure from third parties.
Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by end-customers.
Any errors, defects, malware or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in monetary penalties, negative publicity, loss of revenues or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, loss of future business and reputation, penalties, and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, in the event an error, defect, malware, or vulnerability is attributable to a component supplied by a third-party vendor, we may not be able to recover from the vendor all of the costs of remediation that we may incur.
In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty or indemnification.
Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention.
Moreover, if our products fail to satisfy our customers' quality expectations for whatever reason, the perception of and the demand for our products could be adversely affected.
Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-U.S. currency exchange rates.
Dollars.
We also have some transactions that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Euro, and Indian Rupee related to our sales and service operations outside of the United States.
An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States in which we sell in U.S.
Dollars.
A weakened U.S. Dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.
57

Currently, we hedge currency exposures associated with certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows, with the aim of offsetting the impact of currency fluctuations on these exposures.
However, hedge activities can be costly, and hedging cannot fully offset all risks, including long-term declines or appreciation in the value of the U.S. Dollar.
If we fail to adequately evolve our financial and managerial control and reporting systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business will be negatively affected.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial control and our reporting systems and procedures in order to manage our business effectively in the future.
If we fail to effectively improve our systems and processes or we fail to monitor and ensure that these systems and processes are being used correctly, our ability to manage our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be negatively affected.
Our products are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards and products from other vendors.
Many of our customers’ networks contain multiple generations of products that have been added over time as these networks have grown and evolved.
Our products must interoperate with many or all of the products within these networks as well as future products in order to meet our customers’ requirements.
In addition, if our products do not interoperate with those of our customers’ networks, demand for our products could be adversely affected or orders for our products could be cancelled.
We integrate licensed third-party technology into certain of our products.
The failure to comply with the terms of any license, including free open source software, may result in our inability to continue to use such license.
Some of our agreements with our licensors may be terminated for convenience by them.
Third- party technology we incorporate into our products that is deemed to infringe on the intellectual property of others may result, and in some cases has resulted, in limitations on our ability to source technology from those third parties, restrictions on our ability to sell products that incorporate the infringing technology, increased exposure to liability that we will be held responsible for incorporating the infringing technology in our products and increased costs involved in removing that technology from our products or developing substitute technology.
We rely on the availability and performance of information technology services provided by third parties, including IBM which will manage a significant portion of our systems.
Under the terms of our recent Master Services Agreement and certain Statements of Work, following a transition period, IBM will provide us with a broad range of information technology services, such as applications, including support, development and maintenance; infrastructure management and support, including for servers storage and network devices; and end user support including service desk.
We expect that our businesses will become dependent on the services provided and systems operated for us by IBM and its third-party providers.
Our success is dependent on our ability to maintain effective relationships with IBM and other third-party technology and service providers as well as the ability of IBM and any other third-party providers to perform as expected.
We may terminate our agreement with IBM and any and all Statements of Work at any time on short notice for cause, convenience, certain specific performance failures, a breach of warranties by IBM, failure to transition, failure to transform, changes in law, force majeure, or a change in the control of either IBM or us.
Depending on the type and timing of a termination, we may be required to pay certain termination amounts to IBM.
IBM's only right to terminate the agreement is based on our failure to comply with certain terms applying to disputed payments.
Our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our complete control.
These risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the Company's data under the terms of the agreement.
We are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur.
We are required to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and publicly disclose material weaknesses in our controls.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and to disclose in our filing if such controls were unable to provide assurance that a material error would be prevented or detected in a timely manner.
We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements.
Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
The major credit rating agencies routinely evaluate our indebtedness.
This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
We may be unable to generate the cash flow to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our debt obligations, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of March 31, 2019, we have issued $1,800.0 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, which we refer to collectively as the Notes, and had $1,789.6 million in total outstanding debt.
In April 2019, we entered into a new credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a five-year $500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Revolving Credit Facility, with an option to increase the Revolving Credit Facility by up to an additional $200.0 million.
The Credit Agreement will terminate in April 2024, at which point all amounts borrowed must be repaid (subject to two one-year maturity extension options).
As of March 31, 2019, no amounts were outstanding under our prior revolving credit agreement that was due to expire in June 2019 and was terminated in connection with our entry into the Revolving Credit Facility.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to satisfy our expenses, make anticipated capital expenditures or service our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
Our ability to pay our expenses, satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.
Based upon current levels of operations, we believe cash flow from operations and available cash will be adequate for at least the next twelve months to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness, including the Notes and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
59

However, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Notes) or obtain additional financing.
There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
The indentures that govern the Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things:



•incur liens;



•incur sale and leaseback transactions; and



•consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person.
The Credit Agreement contains two financial covenants along with customary affirmative and negative covenants that include the following:



•maintenance of a leverage ratio no greater than 3.0x (provided that the leverage ratio can be greater than 3.5x under material M&A for up to four quarters) and an interest coverage ratio no less than 3.0x



•covenants that limit or restrict the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of all or substantially all of its assets, change their accounting or reporting policies, change their business and incur subsidiary indebtedness, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type.
Accordingly, these restrictions may limit our ability to successfully operate our business.
A failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of the indebtedness.
Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with these covenants to remedy any such default.
In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments, including those under the Notes, and the Revolving Credit Facility (if drawn upon).
The Tax Act generally limits the annual deduction for net business interest expense to an amount equal to 30% of adjusted taxable income.
As a result, if our taxable income were to decline, we may not be able to fully deduct our net interest expense.
A portion of the transaction consideration we received from the divestiture of our Junos Pulse product portfolio is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, by the buyer under the note.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of our Junos Pulse product portfolio to an affiliate of Siris Capital, a private equity firm, for total consideration of $230.7 million, of which $125.0 million was in the form of an 18-month non-contingent interest-bearing promissory note issued to the Company.
On May 1, 2017, we received a principal payment in the amount of $75.0 million and outstanding interest on the note, and we and the issuer agreed to further amend the terms of the note with respect to the remaining approximately $58.0 million to, among other things, extend the maturity date from December 31, 2018 to September 30, 2022, provided that interest due can be paid in kind by increasing the outstanding principal amount of the note and subordinate the note to other debt issued by senior lenders.
Since a portion of the transaction consideration is in the form of a non-contingent seller promissory note and the note is subordinated to debt issued by senior lenders, there is the risk that we may not receive the amount owed to us (including accrued interest), including in the time frame contemplated, under the note.
Our ability to pay quarterly dividends or achieve our intended capital return policy will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital and debt service requirements, use of cash for acquisitions and other factors.
Any failure to pay or increase future dividends as announced, or a reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
In November 2018, we announced that for 2019, we intend to target a capital return policy, inclusive of share repurchases and dividends, of approximately 75% of annual free cash flow.
Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.
In January 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a new $2.0 billion buyback authorization, which replaced our prior authorization.
In February 2018, as a part of our new buyback authorization, we entered into a $750.0 million accelerated share repurchase program, or ASR, which was completed in the third quarter of 2018, and our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.18 per share, which reflects an increase of 80% compared to previous quarterly dividends.
In January 2019, our Board of Directors declared an increase to our quarterly cash dividend to $0.19 per share.
Any failure to meet our commitments to return capital to our stockholders could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.
The investment of our cash balance and our investments in government and corporate debt securities and equity securities are subject to risks, which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
At March 31, 2019, we had $2,155.6 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1,347.1 million in short-and long-term investments.
We have invested these amounts primarily in asset-backed securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, foreign government debt securities, money market funds, mutual funds, time deposits, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. government securities.
We also have $94.1 million in other long-term assets for our investments in privately-held companies.
Certain of our investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, sovereign debt, and interest rate risks.
Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees.
Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or to our stockholders; (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our restated certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding asserting a claim as to which Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.
The exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our current or former directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our current or former directors, officers, and other employees.
Alternatively, if a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business.
Uninsured losses could harm our operating results.
We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks.
We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions.
The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention.
The policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis.
In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur.
61

Our stock price may fluctuate.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers



During the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no share repurchases under our Board approved 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, which authorized us to purchase an aggregate of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock.
Future share repurchases will be subject to a review of the circumstances in place at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements, including Rule 10b-18 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
This program may be discontinued at any time.
62

Item 6.
Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 *Filed herewith.
**Furnished herewith.
63
