Item 2.
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.
To aid in understanding our operating results for the periods covered by this Report, we have provided an executive overview, which includes a summary of our business and market environment along with a financial results and key performance metrics overview.
Our products are sold in three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA; and Asia Pacific, or APAC.
We sell our high-performance network products and service offerings across routing, switching, and security technologies.
In addition to our products, we offer our customers services, including maintenance and support, professional services, and education and training programs.
We believe our silicon, systems, and software represent innovations that transform the economics and experience of networking, helping our customers achieve superior performance, greater choice, and flexibility, while reducing overall total cost of ownership.
Further, our intent is to lead in the area of software solutions that simplify the operation of networks, and to allow our customers across our key verticals to deliver further value through their networks.
We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenues as a percentage of total revenues over time.
Effective the first quarter of 2018, we revised the naming convention of our key customer verticals as follows:



•Telecom/Cable is now referred to as ‘Service Provider’



•Strategic Enterprise is now referred to as ‘Enterprise’



•Cloud remains unchanged 



Types of customers included in the key verticals remain unchanged.
30

We are focused on and continue to see significant opportunities from the implementation of cloud architectures, such as large public and private data centers, as well as distributed cloud infrastructure, which resides in multiple, distributed data centers in order to place applications or services closer to end users, such as enabling security and "network-as-a-service."
We believe the network needs for our customers in our Service Provider, Cloud, and Enterprise verticals are converging, as these customers recognize the need for high performance networks and leveraging the cloud for improved agility and greater levels of operating efficiency.
As these customers continue to grow, we believe their network architectures will continue to evolve.
We believe our understanding of high performance networking technology and our strategy position us to capitalize on the industry transition to more automated, cost-efficient, scalable networks.
We believe that certain large Cloud customers are transitioning their wide area networks from a scale-up to a scale-out architecture as they continue to add capacity.
This has resulted in, and we expect this may continue to result in, a transition of these customers from purchasing our MX product family to our PTX product family.
In addition, the slow pace of deployments at certain large Cloud customers has led to a near-term slowdown in our net revenues.
Despite these ongoing architectural shifts and deployment delays, we remain confident in our competitive position and strong relationships with these strategic customers.
Our overall strategy with our Cloud customers has not changed and we continue to execute against our innovation roadmap, which includes our plan to continue to grow our relevance and our business in the Cloud vertical.
Innovations



During the third quarter of 2018, we continued to execute on our product strategy.
We announced innovations across our PTX, QFX, and MX series of products.
We also upgraded our services processing card (SPC3 Advanced Security Acceleration card) that can improve performance by as much as eleven times to our SRX5000 line of Services Gateways across a variety of key performance metrics, helping Service Providers, Cloud providers, and Enterprises meet the demands of multicloud; Internet of Things, or IoT; 5G; and the enterprise edge, while continuing to provide customers investment protection with their SPC2 installed base.
We also announced Contrail Edge Cloud that allows Service Providers to cost effectively deploy new services to the space and power-constrained network edge.
It virtualizes compute, storage, and networking resources efficiently and economically in lightweight edge environments such as central offices, base stations, hubs, and switching sites.
Moreover, we recently introduced our software-based Contrail Enterprise Multicloud solution, which began shipping in third quarter of 2018.
We are seeing strong customer adoption as our Enterprise customers migrate to multicloud solutions for end-to-end policy, control, and visibility.
Partnerships



In the third quarter of 2018, we also announced new and expanding partnerships with companies like Nutanix and Ericsson, which we expect will help strengthen our ability to capitalize on multicloud and 5G initiatives and drive our competitive advantage in the marketplace.
Tariffs



The United States, or U.S., government imposed a 10% tariff effective September 24, 2018, on certain goods imported from China, which affects certain products that we import.
The tariff rate is scheduled to increase to 25% on January 1, 2019.
31

Financial Results and Key Performance Metrics Overview



On January 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No.
2014-09 (Topic 606) - Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which we refer to as Topic 606.
The standard provides guidance for revenue recognition that superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, which we refer to as Topic 605, and most industry specific guidance.
See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion on the adoption of Topic 606.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under Topic 605.
The following table provides an overview of our financial results and key financial metrics (in millions, except per share amounts, percentages, and days sales outstanding, or DSO): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the adoption of Topic 606 resulted in a decrease in revenue recognition of $4.6 million and $19.5 million, respectively, due to lower service revenues, partly offset by higher product revenues.
Product revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were higher by $22.8 million and $80.7 million, respectively, under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605, primarily due to the impact of revenue allocation between products and services, timing of revenue recognition from sales to distributors, and variable consideration.
The 



 32

product revenues increase from Topic 606 was allocated among all product categories.
Service revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were lower by $27.4 million and $100.2 million, respectively, under Topic 606, compared to Topic 605, primarily due to the impact of revenue allocation between products and services, and due to certain contractual clauses.
We believe the adoption of Topic 606 will continue to impact the allocation of revenues between product and service.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions.
As a result, significant interpretation and judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for these transactions including: (1) whether performance obligations are considered distinct that should be accounted for separately versus together and how the price should be allocated among the performance obligations and when to recognize revenue for each performance obligation; (2) developing an estimate of the stand-alone selling price, or SSP, of each distinct performance obligation; (3) combining contracts that may impact the allocation of the transaction price between product and services; and (4) estimating and accounting for variable consideration, including rights of return, rebates, price protection, expected penalties or other price concessions as a reduction of the transaction price.
Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report, for a full description of the recently adopted accounting standards and recent accounting standards not yet adopted, including the actual and expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, which is incorporated herein by reference.
34

Results of Operations



Revenues



The following table presents net revenues by product and service, customer vertical, and geographic region (in millions, except percentages): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017



Product net revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to a decrease in revenues from our routing products, partially offset by higher revenues from switching, driven by the impact of the adoption of Topic 606, and growth in security.
The year-over-year decrease in routing revenues was primarily due to our Cloud vertical in the Americas, and to a lesser extent, Service Provider in APAC.
The decline was partially offset by strength in Enterprise in the Americas and EMEA, and to a lesser extent, the impact of the adoption of Topic 606.
The decline in revenues from Cloud reflects the networking architectural shifts for certain large Cloud customers and a slower than expected pace of deployments.
We remain confident in our competitive position with our strategic Cloud customers; however, the pace of deployments is difficult to predict.
Enterprise benefited from a diverse base of customers and the increase in revenues was driven by demand for new solutions such as the MX 204 and MX 10003, which are contributing to our growth in new market segments.
Revenues from our PTX and MX series of products declined year-over-year.
For PTX, the decline was primarily due to the pace of deployments for certain large Cloud customers.
The increase in switching revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, was driven by the impact of Topic 606.
Revenues from our EX series of products increased year-over-year.
Revenues from our QFX series of products declined year-over-year and remain under pressure due to the timing of certain large scale Cloud deployments.
Security net revenues increased year-over-year across all verticals as customers transitioned to our newer product offerings.
Service net revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of Topic 606.
Excluding the impact of Topic 606, our service net revenues would have increased year-over-year, primarily due to strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts.
As a result of Topic 606, we expect that our service net revenues will see a decrease for the full year 2018 compared to 2017.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017



Product net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to Cloud and Service Provider, impacting routing and switching in the Americas.
The decrease in product revenues was partially offset by the impact of Topic 606 and growth in security.
The decrease in routing and switching revenues in the Americas was due to the networking architectural shifts for certain large Cloud customers and slower than expected pace of deployments, resulting in lower revenues from our MX, PTX, and QFX product families.
This was partially offset by higher revenues in EMEA, as well as strong growth in Enterprise.
We experienced growth in revenues from our security business during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, across all verticals as customers transitioned to our newer product offerings.
We expect that our security business will see year-over-year growth for the full year 2018.
Service net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, due to the impact of Topic 606.
Excluding the impact of Topic 606, our service net revenues would have increased year-over-year, driven primarily by strong renewal and attach rates of support contracts.
Additionally, our gross margins for the fourth quarter 2018 could be slightly impacted by the recently imposed China tariffs.
36

Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017



Product gross margin



Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to product mix, partially offset by the impact of Topic 606.
Service gross margin 



Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues decreased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues from the impact of Topic 606 and higher professional services costs to support our software deployments.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017



Product gross margin



Product gross margin as a percentage of product revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to product mix, partially offset by the impact of Topic 606.
Service gross margin 



Service gross margin as a percentage of service net revenues decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower revenues from the impact of Topic 606, increased professional services costs to support our software deployments, and higher service delivery costs.
Operating Expenses



The following table presents operating expenses (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017



During the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, total operating expenses increased primarily due to higher personnel-related expenses, driven by an increase in share-based compensation expense, specifically in research and development, or R&D, and higher variable compensation, partially offset by lower salaries and wages driven by a decrease in headcount as a result of restructuring actions.
37

Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017



During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, total operating expenses decreased primarily due to lower restructuring charges from the 2018 Restructuring Plan initiated during the third quarter of 2018, compared to the 2017 Restructuring Plan.
The decrease was also contributed by lower personnel-related expense resulting from a decline in headcount driven by restructuring actions, partially offset by higher share-based compensation expense, specifically in R&D.
Marketing-related costs also declined year-over-year, due to a decrease in the number of marketing events held in 2018 compared to 2017.
These decreases were partially offset by higher costs to support R&D projects.
Subsequent to September 30, 2018, we amended the 2018 Restructuring Plan to further implement certain organizational changes resulting in a realignment of our workforce.
As a result, we expect to record severance charges of approximately $5.0 million related to headcount reductions in the fourth quarter of 2018.
Other Expense, Net 



The following table presents other expense, net (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017



Total other expense, net increased during the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to losses on equity investments, partially offset by an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields.
With higher interest rates, other expense, net is expected to be lower over the next few quarters.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 compared with the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017



Total other expense, net decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to an increase in interest income related to our fixed income investment portfolio, as a result of higher yields and a higher average portfolio balance, partially offset by losses on equity investments.
The recognition of $67.6 million in previously unrecognized tax benefits is due to a lapse in the federal statute of limitations relative to fiscal years 2010 through 2014.
The reduction of expected tax liabilities of $33.2 million is a result of filing a change in accounting method for the tax recognition of deferred product revenue in the U.S. to better align with the financial statement recognition of such revenue.
Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the Tax Act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in the financial statements as of December 31, 2017.
Due to the complexities of the new provisions and the anticipated regulations referenced above, we are continuing to evaluate how the provisions will be accounted for under U.S. GAAP.
Therefore, we have not recorded any potential deferred tax effects related to GILTI in our financial statements and has not yet made an accounting policy election regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI or use the period cost method.
We expect to complete the accounting during the measurement period.
As a result of recommendations by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, certain countries in EMEA and APAC have either enacted new corporate tax legislation or are considering enacting such legislation in the near future.
We expect the effect of these reform measures to potentially impact long-standing tax principles, particularly in regards to transfer pricing.
Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries that have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher statutory rates.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



We have funded our business primarily through our operating activities and the issuance of our short-term and long-term debt.
The following table presents our capital resources (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________________________



N/M - percentage is not meaningful.
39

Summary of Cash Flows 



The following table summarizes cash flow activity from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________________________



(*) On January 1, 2018, we adopted the new accounting pronouncement Statement of Cash Flows: Restricted Cash.
We applied this provision on a retrospective basis to conform to the current-period presentation.
The adoption did not have a material impact on the cash flow activity presented in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
Operating Activities



Net cash provided by operations decreased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017.
The decrease was primarily due to higher cash collections from customers during the first nine months of 2017 related to service renewals invoiced during the fourth quarter of 2016, and an increase in cash paid during 2018 for income taxes, primarily due to the first of eight annual transition tax payments related to the Tax Act.
These decreases in cash flows were partially offset by a decline in cash paid for personnel-related costs, principally as a result of a reduction in headcount and lower incentive compensation.
Investing Activities



Net cash provided by investing activities increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase was primarily due to the liquidation of repatriated offshore investments to fund the accelerated share repurchase program discussed below.
Financing Activities



Net cash used in financing activities increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase was primarily due to higher repurchases of our common stock, as a result of the accelerated share repurchase program described further below, and increases in payments of cash dividends.
Capital Return



In January 2018, our Board of Directors, which we refer to as the Board, approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase program, which we refer to as the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
The 2018 Stock Repurchase Program replaces the previous authorization approved by the Board in 2014.
As part of the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we entered into an ASR to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock.
During the first quarter of 2018, we made an up-front payment of $750.0 million pursuant to the ASR and received and retired an initial 23.3 million shares of our common stock based on the market value of our common stock on the date of the transaction.
During the third quarter of 2018, the ASR was completed and we received and retired an additional 6.0 million shares, based on volume weighted average repurchase price, less an agreed upon discount, of $25.62 per share.
The completion of the ASR resulted in a total repurchase of 29.3 million shares of our common stock.
As of September 30, 2018, there was $1.3 billion of authorized funds remaining under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
Future share repurchases under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program will be subject to a review of the circumstances at that time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
See Note 8, Equity, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for further discussion of our share purchase program.
40

We declared and paid cash dividends of $0.18 per share each quarter, totaling $187.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Any future dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, are subject to approval by the Board or an authorized committee thereof.
See Note 14, Subsequent Event, in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report for discussion of our dividend declaration subsequent to September 30, 2018.
Revolving Credit Facility



We have an unsecured revolving credit facility that will expire in 2019, which enables borrowings of up to $500.0 million, with the option, subject to the lenders' approval, to increase the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $200.0 million.
As of September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants and there were no amounts outstanding under our credit facility.
Following the enactment of the Tax Act, we repatriated approximately $2.5 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and investments balance from outside of the U.S. as of September 30, 2018.
We expect the new territorial tax system to provide us lower cost access to nearly all of our global free cash flow on an ongoing basis.
Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures.
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term, and long-term investments, together with cash generated from operations and access to capital markets and the revolving credit facility will be sufficient to fund our operations; planned stock repurchases and dividends; capital expenditures; commitments and other liquidity requirements; and anticipated growth for at least the next twelve months.
41
