ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



KLA CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
3

KLA CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
4

KLA CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
5

KLA CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
6

KLA CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 See accompanying notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (unaudited).
7

KLA CORPORATION



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



(Unaudited)



NOTE 1 – BASIS OF PRESENTATION



Basis of Presentation.
On July 15, 2019 we changed our corporate name from “KLA-Tencor Corporation” to “KLA Corporation”.
For purposes of this report, “KLA,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references mean KLA Corporation, and its majority-owned subsidiaries unless the context requires otherwise.
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair statement of the financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the periods indicated.
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of KLA and its majority-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to conform to the current year presentation.
The reclassifications did not have material effects on the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows.
Acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. On February 20, 2019 (the “Closing Date” or “Acquisition Date”), we completed the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) for total consideration of $3.26 billion.
The acquisition of Orbotech is referred to as the “Orbotech Acquisition”.
The Orbotech Acquisition was accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations.
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this report include the financial results of Orbotech prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Management Estimates.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Comparability.
Effective July 1, 2019, we adopted ASC 842, Leases (“ASC 842”).
Prior periods were not retrospectively restated, and accordingly, the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2019, and the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three months ended September 30, 2018 were prepared using accounting standards that were different than those in effect for the three months ended September 30, 2019.
Significant Accounting Policies.
We updated our accounting policies for Leases.
Leases.
Under ASC 842, a contract is or contains a lease when we have the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception of the contract, which is the date on which the terms of the contract are agreed to, and the agreement creates enforceable rights and obligations.
The commencement date of the lease is the date that the lessor makes an underlying asset available for our use.
On the commencement date leases are evaluated for classification and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
8

The lease term used to calculate the lease liability includes options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
The right-of-use (“ROU”) asset is initially measured as the amount of lease liability, adjusted for any initial lease costs, prepaid lease payments and any lease incentives.
Variable lease payments, consisting primarily of reimbursement of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance, real estate taxes, and insurance are not included in the lease liability and are recognized as they are incurred.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate at lease commencement to measure ROU assets and lease liabilities.
The incremental borrowing rate used by us is based on baseline rates and adjusted by the credit spreads commensurate with our secured borrowing rate, over a similar term.
We used the incremental borrowing rate on June 30, 2019 for all leases that commenced on or prior to that date.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have elected the practical expedient to account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component for the majority of our asset classes.
For leases with a term of one year or less, we have elected not to record the ROU asset or liability.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.
Recently Adopted



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC 842 which supersedes the lease recognition requirements in ASC 840, Leases, (“ASC 840”).
The most prominent of the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Consistent with ASC 840, leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations.
In July 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amended ASC 842 and offered an additional (and optional) transition method by which entities could elect not to recast the comparative periods presented in financial statements in the period of adoption.
KLA adopted the new standard on July 1, 2019, the first day of fiscal 2020, using the optional adoption method whereby we did not adjust comparative period financial statements.
Consequently, prior period balances and disclosures have not been restated.
KLA elected certain practical expedients, which among other things, allowed us to carry forward prior conclusions about lease identification and classification.
The adoption of ASC 842 resulted in the balance sheet recognition of additional lease assets and lease liabilities of $110.7 million and $108.7 million, respectively, related primarily to facilities, vehicles and other equipment.
The adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on beginning retained earnings, the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations, Cash Flows, or earnings per share.
Additionally, the adoption of ASC 842 did not have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for arrangements in which KLA is the lessor.
For additional information regarding KLA’s leases, see Note 9 “Leases” in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Updates Not Yet Effective



In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets.
Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses.
The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination.
The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which modifies the existing accounting standards for fair value measurement disclosure.
This update eliminates the disclosure of the amount of and reasons for transfers between level 1 and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and the policy for timing of transfers between levels.
This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to amend the disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans.
Some of the changes include adding a disclosure requirement for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period and removing the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year.
This standard update is effective for us for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
9

In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The guidance clarifies which costs should be capitalized including the cost to acquire the license and the related implementation costs.
This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with an option to be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NOTE 2 – REVENUE



Contract Balances



The following table represents the opening and closing balances of accounts receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities for the indicated periods.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although terms generally include a requirement of payment of 70% to 90% of total contract consideration within 30 to 60 days of shipment, with the remainder payable within 30 days of acceptance.
The change in contract assets during the three months ended September 30, 2019 was mainly due to $27.6 million of revenue recognized for which the payment is subject to conditions other than passage of time, partially offset by $22.8 million of contract assets reclassified to net accounts receivable as our right to consideration for these contract assets became unconditional.
Contract assets are included in Other current assets on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we recognized revenue of $266.8 million that was included in contract liabilities as of July 1, 2019.
This was partially offset by the value of products and services billed to customers for which control of the products and service has not transferred to the customers.
Contract liabilities are included in current and non-current liabilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Remaining Performance Obligations



As of September 30, 2019, we had $2.08 billion of remaining performance obligations, which represents our obligation to deliver products and services, and consists primarily of sales orders where written customer requests have been received.
We expect to recognize approximately 5% to 15% of these performance obligations as revenue beyond the next twelve months, subject to risk of delays, pushouts, and cancellation by the customer, usually with limited or no penalties.
Refer to Note 18 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to revenue by geographic region as well as significant product and service offerings.
NOTE 3 – FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS



Our financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for our debt and certain equity investments in privately-held companies.
Equity investments without a readily available fair value are accounted for using the measurement alternative.
The measurement alternative is calculated as cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes.
Our non-financial assets, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and land, property and equipment, are assessed for impairment when an event or circumstance indicates that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments.
We have evaluated the estimated fair value of financial instruments using available market information and valuations as provided by third-party sources.
The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies could have a significant effect on the estimated fair value amounts.
The fair value of our cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts due to the relatively short maturity of these items.
10

Fair Value Hierarchy.
The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below:



Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
A financial instrument’s level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
As of September 30, 2019, the types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in active markets included money market funds, certain U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities.
Such instruments are generally classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
The types of instruments valued based on other observable inputs included corporate debt securities, sovereign securities, municipal securities, certain U.S. Treasury and U.S. Government agency securities.
The market inputs used to value these instruments generally consist of market yields, reported trades and broker / dealer quotes.
Such instruments are generally classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The principal market in which we execute our foreign currency contracts is the institutional market in an over-the-counter environment with a relatively high level of price transparency.
The market participants generally are large financial institutions.
Our foreign currency contracts’ valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and quoted pricing intervals from public data sources and do not involve management judgment.
These contracts are typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of deferred payments and contingent consideration payable, the majority of which were recorded in connection with recent business combinations, were classified as Level 3 and estimated using significant inputs that were not observable in the market.
See Note 6 “Business Combinations” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
11

Financial assets (excluding cash held in operating accounts and time deposits) and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of the date indicated below, were presented on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 ________________



(1) Excludes cash of $503.5 million held in operating accounts and time deposits of $85.9 million as of September 30, 2019.
12

Financial assets (excluding cash held in operating accounts and time deposits) and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of the date indicated below, were presented on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________



(1) Excludes cash of $479.8 million held in operating accounts and time deposits of $99.0 million as of June 30, 2019.
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements during the three months ended September 30, 2019.
See Note 8 “Debt” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of the fair value of our Senior Notes.
13

NOTE 4 – FINANCIAL STATEMENT COMPONENTS



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 14

________________



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)



The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) as of the dates indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effects on net income (loss) of amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI to the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the indicated period were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ 



(1)



The three months ended September 30, 2019 reflects the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, which was adopted in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
For additional details, refer to Note 16, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to our defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $0.2 million, respectively.
For additional details, refer to Note 12, “Employee Benefit Plans” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
15

NOTE 5 – MARKETABLE SECURITIES



The amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities as of the dates indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________



(1) Time deposits excluded from fair value measurements.
Our investment portfolio consists of both corporate and government securities that have a maximum maturity of three years.
The longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in market interest rates and bond yields.
As yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss.
Most of our unrealized losses are due to changes in market interest rates and bond yields.
We believe that we have the ability to realize the full value of all of these investments upon maturity.
As of September 30, 2019, we had 158 investments in an unrealized loss position.
The following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses of our investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of the date indicated below, $260.4 million of which were in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 16

The contractual maturities of securities classified as available-for-sale, regardless of their classification on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, as of the date indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were immaterial.
NOTE 6 - BUSINESS COMBINATIONS



Fiscal 2020 Acquisition



On August 22, 2019, we acquired the outstanding shares of a privately-held company, primarily to expand our products and services offerings, for a total purchase consideration of $93.9 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay an additional consideration up to $60.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain revenue milestones.
As of September 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $9.2 million, which was classified as a non-current liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We have included the financial results of the acquisition completed during the first quarter of the fiscal year 2020 in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements from the date of acquisition.
These results were not material to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The purchase price of the fiscal 2020 acquisition was allocated on a preliminary basis as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The purchase price allocation is preliminary and as additional information becomes available, we may further revise the preliminary purchase price allocation during the remainder of the measurement period, which will not exceed 12 months from the closing of the acquisition.
The $54.0 million of goodwill was assigned to the Wafer Inspection and Patterning reporting units.
None of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes.
Fiscal 2019 Acquisitions



Orbotech Acquisition



On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech for total purchase consideration of approximately $3.26 billion which was paid in part by cash of $1.90 billion, in part by KLA common stock with a fair value of $1.32 billion and the balance by the assumption of stock options and RSUs.
Orbotech is a global supplier of yield-enhancing and process-enabling solutions for the manufacture of electronics products.
KLA acquired Orbotech to extend and enhance its portfolio of products to address market opportunities in the printed circuit board, flat panel display, advanced packaging and semiconductor manufacturing areas.
17

Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation



The total purchase consideration has been preliminarily allocated as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(3)



Represents primarily cash consideration for the settlement of the vested stock options and restricted stock units for which services were rendered by the employees of Orbotech prior to the closing, and a small portion for the settlement of fractional shares.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(5)



Represents the fair value of the assumed stock options and RSUs to the extent those related to services provided by the employee of Orbotech prior to closing.
Also refer to Note 10, “Equity, Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about assumed stock options and RSUs.
18

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(7) 



Primarily related to tax impact on the future amortization of intangible assets acquired and inventory fair value adjustments.
During the first quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020, we recorded measurement period adjustments to reflect facts and circumstances in existence as of the Acquisition Date.
These adjustments primarily related to the valuation of individually immaterial net tangible assets of $2.1 million with corresponding decrease to goodwill.
KLA allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the preliminary estimates of their estimated fair values, which were determined using generally accepted valuation techniques based on estimates and assumptions made by management at the time of the Orbotech Acquisition and are subject to change during the measurement period which is not expected to exceed one year.
The primary tasks that are required to be completed include discovery and the remeasurement of unknown uncertain tax positions that existed at the Acquisition Date, adjustments to the deferred tax liabilities for unremitted earnings, validation of synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition of Orbotech, recoverability of certain acquired assets and reallocation of certain acquired intangible assets between jurisdictions based on the outcome of ongoing tax audits, including any related tax impacts.
Any adjustments to our preliminary purchase price allocation identified during the measurement period will be recognized in the period in which the adjustments are determined and recorded against goodwill.
The operating results of Orbotech have been included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three months ended September 30, 2019.
The goodwill was primarily attributable to the assembled workforce of Orbotech, planned growth in new markets and synergies expected to be achieved from the combined operations of KLA and Orbotech.
None of the goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes.
Goodwill arising from the Orbotech Acquisition has been allocated to the Specialty Semiconductor Process; and the PCB and Display reporting units during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
For additional details, refer to Note 7 “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets” of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
19

Intangible Assets



The estimated fair value and weighted average useful life of the Orbotech intangible assets are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________



(1) 



Existing technology was identified from the products of Orbotech and its fair value was determined using the Relief-from-Royalty Method under the income approach, which estimates the cost savings generated by a company related to the ownership of an asset for which it would otherwise have had to pay royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset.
The discount rate used was determined at the time of measurement based on an analysis of the implied internal rate of return of the transaction, weighted average cost of capital and weighted average return on assets.
The economic useful life was determined based on the technology cycle related to each developed technology, as well as the cash flows over the forecast period.
(2) 



Customer contracts and related relationships represent the fair value of the existing relationships with the Orbotech customers and its fair value was determined using the Multi-Period Excess Earning Method which involves isolating the net earnings attributable to the asset being measured based on present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows (excess earnings) attributable solely to the intangible asset over its remaining useful life.
The economic useful life was determined based on historical customer attrition rates.
(3)



Backlog primarily relates to the dollar value of purchase arrangements with customers, effective, as of a given point in time, that are based on mutually agreed terms which, in some cases, may still be subject to completion of written documentation and may be changed or canceled by the customer, often without penalty.
Orbotech’s backlog consists of these arrangements with assigned shipment dates expected, in most cases, within three to twelve months.
The fair value was determined using the Multi-Period Excess Earning Method.
The economic useful life is based on the time to fulfill the outstanding order backlog obligation.
(4)Trade name primarily relates to the “Orbotech” trade name.
The fair value was determined by applying the Relief-from-Royalty Method under the income approach.
The economic useful life was determined based on the expected life of the trade name.
(5) The favorable / unfavorable components of the acquired leases were determined using the Income Approach which involves present valuing the difference in future cash flows between the contracted lease payments and the rent payable to a market participant over the lease terms.
The economic useful life is based on the remaining lease term.
(6)



The fair value of in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) was determined using the relief-from-royalty method under the income approach, which estimates the cost savings generated by a company related to the ownership of an asset for which it would otherwise have had to pay royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset.
We believe the amounts of purchased intangible assets recorded above represent the fair values of and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for, these intangible assets as of the Acquisition Date.
Other Fiscal 2019 Acquisitions



During the three months ended March 31, 2019 we acquired three privately-held companies primarily to expand our products and services offerings for an aggregate purchase price of $118.3 million, including a post-closing working capital adjustment, and the fair value of the promise to pay additional consideration of up to $13.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones.
As of September 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $5.3 million, which was classified as a non-current liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we acquired two privately-held companies for an aggregate purchase price of $15.4 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay total additional consideration of up to $6.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones.
As of September 30, 2019, the estimated fair value of the 



 20

additional consideration was $1.7 million, which is classified as a non-current liability on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
None of these acquisitions were individually material to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The aggregate purchase price of the other fiscal 2019 acquisitions was allocated on a preliminary basis as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The goodwill was primarily assigned to the Wafer Inspection and Patterning, and GSS reporting units, and mainly attributable to the assembled workforce, and planned growth in new markets.
Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Information:



The following unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the combined results of operations for KLA, Orbotech, and the three acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as if the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2018.
The unaudited pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired, adjustments to stock-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventory acquired, the purchase accounting effect on deferred revenue, interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes financing, and transaction costs.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We have not included pro forma results of operations for the acquisition of privately-held companies completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 or the first quarter of fiscal 2020 herein as they were not material to us on either an individual or in aggregate.
We included the results of operations of each acquisition in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations from the date of each acquisition.
NOTE 7 – GOODWILL AND PURCHASED INTANGIBLE ASSETS



Goodwill



Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in the current and prior business combinations.
We have four reportable segments and six reporting units.
For additional details, refer to Note 18, “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial 



 21

Statements.
The following table presents goodwill carrying value and the movements during the three months ended September 30, 2019(1):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_________________



(1)



No goodwill was assigned to the Other reporting unit, and accordingly was excluded in the table above.
As of September 30, 2019, there have been no significant events or circumstances affecting the valuation of goodwill subsequent to the qualitative assessment performed in the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
For additional details, refer to Note 7 “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
The next annual assessment of goodwill by reporting unit is scheduled to be performed in the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
Purchased Intangible Assets



The components of purchased intangible assets as of the dates indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Purchased intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable.
The change in the gross carrying amounts of intangible assets is due to acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of privately-held companies.
For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Amortization expense for purchased intangible assets for the periods indicated below was as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 22

Based on the purchased intangible assets gross carrying amount recorded as of September 30, 2019, the underlying assets, the remaining estimated annual amortization expense is expected to be as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 8 – DEBT



The following table summarizes our debt as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2019, future principal payments for our debt are $250.0 million for the remaining nine months in fiscal year 2020; $500.0 million in fiscal year 2022; and $2.70 billion after fiscal year 2023.
Senior Notes:



In March 2019 and November 2014, we issued $1.20 billion and $2.50 billion, respectively (each, a “2019 Senior Notes”, a “2014 Senior Notes”, and collectively the “Senior Notes”), aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes.
The interest rate specified for each series of the 2014 Senior Notes will be subject to adjustments from time to time if Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) or Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) or, under certain circumstances, a substitute rating agency selected by us as a replacement for Moody’s or S&P, as the case may be (a “Substitute Rating Agency”), downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the respective series of the 2014 Senior Notes such that the adjusted rating is below investment grade.
For additional details, refer to Note 8 “Debt” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
Unlike the 2014 Senior Notes, the interest rate for each series of the 2019 Senior Notes will not be subject to such adjustments.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we entered into a series of forward contracts (the “2018 Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark interest rate with notional amount of $500.0 million in aggregate.
In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts to lock the 10-year treasury rate (“benchmark rate”) on a portion of the 2014 Senior Notes with a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate.
For additional details on the forward contracts, refer to Note 16, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
23

The original discounts on the 2019 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes amounted to $6.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively and are being amortized over the life of the debt.
Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year for the 2014 Senior Notes and semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2019 Senior Notes.
The indenture for the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted.
In certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of a series of Senior Notes by at least two of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Inc., unless we have exercised our rights to redeem the Senior Notes of such series, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all or, at the holder’s option, any part, of each holder’s Senior Notes of that series pursuant to the offer described below (the “Change of Control Offer”).
In the Change of Control Offer, we will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Senior Notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
Based on the trading prices of the Senior Notes on the applicable dates, the fair value of the Senior Notes as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019 was approximately $3.82 billion and $3.70 billion, respectively.
While the Senior Notes are recorded at cost, the fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active; accordingly, the long-term debt is categorized as Level 2 for purposes of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
As of September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes.
Revolving Credit Facility:



In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility.
Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate.
In November 2018, we entered into an Incremental Facility, Extension and Amendment Agreement (the “Amendment”), which amends the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the Maturity Date (the “Maturity Date”) from November 30, 2022 to November 30, 2023, (b) increase the total commitment by $250.0 million and (c) effect certain other amendments to the Credit Agreement as set forth in the Amendment.
After giving effect to the Amendment, the total commitments under the Credit Agreement are $1.00 billion.
We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until the Maturity Date, at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid.
We may prepay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty.
Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either: (i) the Alternative Base Rate (“ABR”) plus a spread, which ranges from 0 bps to 75 bps, or (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a spread, which ranges from 100 bps to 175 bps.
The spreads under ABR and LIBOR are subject to adjustment in conjunction with credit rating downgrades or upgrades.
We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility, which ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps, subject to an adjustment in conjunction with changes to our credit rating.
As of September 30, 2019, we pay an annual commitment fee of 12.5 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00.
In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions.
As of September 30, 2019, our maximum allowed leverage ratio was 4.00 to 1.00 following the Orbotech Acquisition.
We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2019 and had no outstanding borrowings under the unfunded Revolving Credit Facility.
NOTE 9– LEASES



We have operating leases for facilities, vehicles, and other equipment.
Our facility leases are primarily used for administrative functions, research and development, manufacturing, and storage and distribution.
Our finance leases are not material.
24

Our existing leases do not contain significant restrictive provisions or residual value guarantees; however, certain leases contain provisions for payment of maintenance, real estate taxes, or insurance costs by us.
Our leases have remaining lease terms ranging from less than one year to eleven years, including periods covered by options to extend the lease when it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised.
Total lease expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $8.7 million and included $0.2 million of costs related to short term leases which are not recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
At September 30, 2019, the weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rate for operating leases was 5.2 years and 1.7%, respectively.
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Maturities of lease liabilities as of September 30, 2019 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2019, we did not have material leases that had not yet commenced.
As of June 30, 2019, future minimum lease payments as defined under the previous lease accounting guidance of ASC 840 under noncancelable operating leases were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 10 – EQUITY, LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST



Equity Incentive Program 



As of September 30, 2019, we had 10.8 million shares available for issuance under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2004 Plan”).
Assumed Equity Plans



As of the Orbotech Acquisition Date, we assumed outstanding equity incentive awards under the following Orbotech equity incentive plans: (i) Equity Remuneration Plan for Key Employees of Orbotech Ltd. and its Affiliates and Subsidiaries (as Amended and Restated in 2005), (ii) 2010 Equity-Based Incentive Plan, and (iii) 2015 Equity-Based Incentive Plan (each, an “Assumed Equity Plan” and collectively the “Assumed Equity Plans”).
As of September 30, 2019, there were 10,651 and 432,372 shares of our common stock underlying the outstanding Assumed Options and RSUs, respectively, under the Assumed Equity Plans.
The weighted-average remaining contractual terms, the aggregate intrinsic values, and the weighted average exercise price for the stock options outstanding under the Assumed Equity Plans as of September 30, 2019 were 4.75 years, $0.6 million, and $63.08 per share, respectively.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019, there were 3,907 Assumed Options exercised with a weighted-average exercise price of $29.26.
For details on the Assumed Equity Plans refer to Note 9 “Equity, Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
Equity Incentive Plans - General Information



The following table summarizes the combined activity under our equity incentive plans:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ 



(1)



The number of RSUs reflects the application of the award multiplier of 2.0x to calculate the impact of the award on the shares reserved under the 2004 Plan.
(2)



No additional stock options, RSUs or other awards will be granted under the Assumed Equity Plans.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period.
For RSUs granted without “dividend equivalent” rights, fair value is calculated using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on those RSUs.
The fair value for RSUs granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date.
The fair value for purchase rights under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan is determined using a Black-Scholes model.
26

The following table shows stock-based compensation expense for the indicated periods: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table shows stock-based compensation capitalized as inventory as of the dates indicated below: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restricted Stock Units 



The following table shows the activity and weighted-average grant date fair value for RSUs during the three months ended September 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ 



(1)



Share numbers reflect actual shares subject to awarded RSUs.
(2)



Includes performance-based and market-based RSUs.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The RSUs granted by us generally vest (a) with respect to awards with only service-based vesting criteria, over periods ranging from two to four years and (b) with respect to awards with both performance-based and service-based vesting criteria, in two equal installments on the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date and (c) with respect to awards with both market-based and service-based vesting criteria in three equal installments on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date, in each case subject to the recipient remaining employed by us as of the applicable vesting date.
The RSUs granted to the independent members of the Board of Directors vest annually.
The following table shows the weighted-average grant date fair value per unit for the RSUs granted, vested, and tax benefits realized by us in connection with vested and released RSUs for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 27

As of September 30, 2019, the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense balance related to RSUs was $206.2 million, excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures, and will be recognized over a weighted-average remaining contractual term and an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.8 years.
The intrinsic value of outstanding RSUs as of September 30, 2019 was $451.2 million.
Cash-Based Long-Term Incentive Compensation



We have adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI Plan”) program for many of our employees as part of our employee compensation program.
Executives and non-employee members of the Board of Directors are not participating in this program.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we approved Cash LTI awards of $1.8 million and $2.8 million, respectively under our Cash LTI Plan.
Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan will vest in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year period.
In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date.
During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we recognized $16.6 million and $15.2 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan.
As of September 30, 2019, the unrecognized compensation balance (excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures) related to the Cash LTI Plan was $134.2 million.
For details, refer to Note 9 “Equity, Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan



Our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) provides that eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their eligible earnings toward the semi-annual purchase of our common stock.
The ESPP is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code.
The employee’s purchase price is derived from a formula based on the closing price of the common stock on the first day of the offering period versus the closing price on the date of purchase (or, if not a trading day, on the immediately preceding trading day).
The offering period (or length of the look-back period) under the ESPP has a duration of six months, and the purchase price with respect to each offering period beginning on or after such date is, until otherwise amended, equal to 85% of the lesser of (i) the fair market value of our common stock at the commencement of the applicable six-month offering period or (ii) the fair market value of our common stock on the purchase date.
We estimate the fair value of purchase rights under the ESPP using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of each purchase right under the ESPP was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model and the straight-line attribution approach with the following weighted-average assumptions: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table shows total cash received from employees for the issuance of shares under the ESPP, the number of shares purchased by employees through the ESPP, the tax benefits realized by us in connection with the disqualifying dispositions of shares purchased under the ESPP and the weighted-average fair value per share for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 28

The ESPP shares are replenished annually on the first day of each fiscal year by virtue of an evergreen provision.
The provision allows for share replenishment equal to the lesser of 2.0 million shares or the number of shares which we estimate will be required to be issued under the ESPP during the forthcoming fiscal year.
As of September 30, 2019, a total of 2.6 million shares were reserved and available for issuance under the ESPP.
Quarterly cash dividends



On August 1, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share on the outstanding shares of our common stock, which was paid on September 3, 2019 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 15, 2019.
The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was $121.6 million and $119.9 million, respectively.
The amount of accrued dividends equivalents payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested RSUs with dividend equivalent rights as of September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019 was $6.4 million and $7.3 million, respectively.
These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying RSUs.
Non-controlling Interest 



We have consolidated the results of Orbotech LT Solar, LLC (“OLTS”) and Orbograph Ltd. (“Orbograph”), in which we own approximately 84% and 94% of the outstanding equity interest, respectively.
OLTS is engaged in the research, development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various materials on crystalline silicon photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels through plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (“PECVD”).
Orbograph is engaged in the development and marketing of character recognition solutions to banks, financial and other payment processing institutions and healthcare providers.
Additionally, we have consolidated the results of PixCell, an Israeli company developing diagnostic equipment for point-of-care hematology applications of which we own approximately 52% of the outstanding equity interest and are entitled to appoint the majority of this company’s directors.
NOTE 11 – STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM 



Our Board of Directors has authorized a program which permits us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
The intent of this program is to offset the dilution from our equity incentive plans, employee stock purchase plan, the issuance of shares in the Orbotech Acquisition, as well as to return excess cash to our stockholders.
Subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, the repurchases were made in the open market in compliance with applicable securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, such as Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1.
This stock repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended at any time.
On September 17, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized us to repurchase an additional $1.00 billion of our common stock.
As of September 30, 2019, an aggregate of approximately $1.63 billion was available for repurchase under our stock repurchase program.
Share repurchases for the indicated periods (based on the trade date of the applicable repurchase) were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2019, we had repurchased 50 thousand shares for $8.0 million, for which repurchases had not settled prior to September 30, 2019.
The amount was recorded as a component of other current liabilities for the period presented.
NOTE 12 – NET INCOME PER SHARE



Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share is calculated by using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, increased to include the number of additional shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the shares of common stock underlying our outstanding dilutive restricted stock units had been issued.
The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method.
We are also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions, including Singapore and Israel, for all years beginning from the calendar year ended December 31, 2012.
We are under audit in Germany related to Orbotech for the years ended December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2015.
It is possible that certain examinations may be concluded in the next twelve months.
The timing and resolution of income tax examinations is uncertain.
The amounts paid, if any, upon resolution of issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year.
In May 2017, Orbotech received an assessment from the Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”) with respect to its fiscal years 2012 through 2014 (the “Assessment”, and the “Audit Period”, respectively), for an aggregate amount of tax, after offsetting all net operating losses (“NOLs”) available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 229.0 million (equivalent to approximately $66.0 million which includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index as of date of the issuance of the Tax Decrees, as defined below).
On August 31, 2018, Orbotech filed an objection in respect of the tax assessment (the “Objection”).
The ITA completed the second stage of the audit, in which the claims Orbotech raised in the Objection were examined by different personnel at the ITA.
In addition, the ITA examined additional items during this second stage of the audit.
As Orbotech and the ITA did not reach an agreement during the second stage, the ITA issued Tax Decrees to Orbotech on August 28, 2019 (“Tax Decrees”) for an aggregate amount of tax, after offsetting all NOLs available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 257 million (equivalent to approximately $74 million which includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index as of the date of the issuance of the Tax Decrees).
These Tax Decrees replaced the Assessment.
30

Orbotech filed a notice of appeal with respect to the above Tax Decrees with the District Court of Tel Aviv on September 26, 2019.
The ITA and Orbotech have agreed to extend the filing of the ITA's arguments in support of the Tax Decrees to February 28, 2020.
The ITA and Orbotech are continuing discussions in an effort to resolve this matter in a mutually agreeable manner.
In connection with the above, there is an ongoing criminal investigation in Israel against Orbotech, certain of its employees and its tax consultant.
On April 11, 2018, Orbotech received a “suspect notification letter” (dated March 28, 2018) from the Tel Aviv District Attorney’s Office (Fiscal and Financial).
In the letter, it was noted that the investigation file was transferred from the Assessment Investigation Officer to the District Attorney’s Office.
The letter further states that the District Attorney’s Office has not yet made a decision regarding submission of an indictment against Orbotech; and that if after studying the case, a decision is made to consider prosecuting Orbotech, Orbotech will receive an additional letter, and within 30 days, Orbotech may present its arguments to the District Attorney’s Office as to why it should not be indicted.
On October 27, 2019, we received a request for additional information from the District Attorney's Office.
We will continue to monitor the progress of the District Attorney’s Office investigation, however, we cannot anticipate when the review of the case will be completed and what will be the results thereof.
We intend to cooperate with the District Attorney’s Office to enable them to conclude their investigation.
NOTE 14 – LITIGATION AND OTHER LEGAL MATTERS



We are named from time to time as a party to lawsuits and other types of legal proceedings and claims in the normal course of our business.
Actions filed against us include commercial, intellectual property, customer, and labor and employment related claims, including complaints of alleged wrongful termination and potential class action lawsuits regarding alleged violations of federal and state wage and hour and other laws.
Moreover, the results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of outcome.
We believe the amounts provided in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are adequate in light of the probable and estimated liabilities.
NOTE 15 – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Factoring.
We have agreements (referred to as “factoring agreements”) with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse.
We do not believe we are at risk for any material losses as a result of these agreements.
In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.
Purchase Commitments.
We maintain commitments to purchase inventory from our suppliers as well as goods, services, and other assets in the ordinary course of business.
Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties.
This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers.
Our estimate of our significant purchase commitments for primarily material, services, supplies and asset purchases is approximately $643.5 million as of September 30, 2019, which are primarily due within the next 12 months.
Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided.
In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled.
Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties.
31

Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan.
As of September 30, 2019, we have committed $176.0 million for future payment obligations under our Cash LTI Plan.
The calculation of compensation expense related to the Cash LTI Plan includes estimated forfeiture rate assumptions.
Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan vest in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year period.
In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date.
Guarantees and Contingencies.
We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $49.2 million, of which $43.0 million had been issued as of September 30, 2019, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe, Israel and Asia.
Indemnification Obligations.
These obligations arise under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, applicable contracts, and Delaware and California law.
For example, we have paid or reimbursed legal expenses incurred in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related litigation and government inquiries by several of our current and former directors, officers and employees.
Although the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under the indemnification obligations generally described in this paragraph is theoretically unlimited, we believe the fair value of this liability, to the extent estimable, is appropriately considered within the reserve we have established for currently pending legal proceedings.
We are a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters.
In each of these circumstances, payment by us is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with us pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract.
Further, our obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of amounts, activity (typically at our option to replace or correct the products or terminate the agreement with a refund to the other party), and duration.
In some instances, we may have recourse against third parties and/or insurance covering certain payments made by us.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments.
Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments.
If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection.
To date, we have made no significant accruals in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for this contingency.
While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that it will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
NOTE 16 – DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES



The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements, (collectively “derivatives”) as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In accordance with the accounting guidance, we designate foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, purchase and spending transactions, and the benchmark interest rate of the corresponding debt financing, respectively.
As a result, we are exposed to risks relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
We utilize foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect certain existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, such as the Japanese yen, the euro, the pound sterling and the Israeli new shekel.
We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations.
These currency forward exchange contracts and options, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months.
Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness monthly, based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives.
If a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material losses.
In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes.
The Rate Lock Agreements had a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate which matured in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015.
The Rate Lock Agreements were terminated on the date of the pricing of the $1.25 billion of 4.650% Senior Notes due in 2024 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) as of December 31, 2014.
We recognized $0.2 million for each of the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, for the amortization of the gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), which amount reduced the interest expense.
As of September 30, 2019, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the Rate Lock Agreements was $3.8 million.
For more details, refer to Note 16, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019.
During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we entered into a series of forward contracts (the “2018 Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark interest rate prior to expected debt issuances.
The objective of the 2018 Rate Lock Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate leading up to the closing of the intended financing on the notional amount being hedged.
The 2018 Rate Lock Agreement had a notional amount of $500.0 million in aggregate, which matured and terminated in the third quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and we recorded the fair value of $13.6 million as a loss within OCI.
We recognized $0.3 million amortization of the loss recognized in accumulated OCI, which increased the interest expense for the three months ended September 30, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the 2018 Rate Lock Agreements was $13.0 million.
For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Prior to adopting the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, time value was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges.
Time value was amortized on a mark-to-market basis and recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract.
For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
The change in fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.
The assessment of effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance.
The initial value of the component excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract.
Any difference between change in the fair value of the excluded components and the amounts recognized in earnings are recorded in OCI.
For derivatives that are not designated as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income), net.
We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities.
The gains and losses on these derivative instruments are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
33

Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships: Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Contracts



The gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships recognized in OCI for the indicated periods were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The locations and amounts of designated and non-designated derivative’s gains and losses reported in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the indicated periods were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The U.S. dollar equivalent of all outstanding notional amounts of foreign currency hedge contracts, with maximum remaining maturities of approximately ten months as of the dates indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 34

The locations and fair value of our derivatives reported in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the dates indicated below were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The changes in OCI, before taxes, related to derivatives for the indicated periods were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Offsetting of Derivative Assets and Liabilities



We present derivatives at gross fair values in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We have entered into arrangements with each of our counterparties, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty under certain conditions.
The information related to the offsetting arrangements for the periods indicated was as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 35

NOTE 17– RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS



During the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, we purchased from, or sold to, several entities, where one or more of our executive officers or members of our Board of Directors, or their immediate family members, were, during the periods presented, an executive officer or a board member of a subsidiary, including Anaplan, Inc. Citrix Systems, Inc., Keysight Technologies, Inc., and NetApp, Inc.
The following table provides the transactions with these parties for the indicated periods (for the portion of such period that they were considered related):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our receivable balances from these parties were $1.8 million at September 30, 2019 and immaterial as of June 30, 2019.
Our payable balances from these parties were immaterial at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019.
NOTE 18 – SEGMENT REPORTING AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION



ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments.
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
Our CODM is our Chief Executive Officer.
We have four reportable segments: Semiconductor Process Control; Specialty Semiconductor Process; PCB, Display and Component Inspection; and Other.
The reportable segments are determined based on several factors including, but not limited to, customer base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics.
Semiconductor Process Control 



The Semiconductor Process Control (“SPC”) segment offers comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data analytics products, and related service, which helps integrated circuit manufacturers achieve target yield throughout the entire semiconductor fabrication process-from research and development (“R&D”) to final volume production.
Our differentiated products and services are designed to provide comprehensive solutions that help our customers accelerate development and production ramp cycles, achieve higher and more stable semiconductor die yields and improve their overall profitability.
This reportable segment is comprised of two operating segments.
This reportable segment is comprised of one operating segment.
This segment also engages in the development and marketing of character recognition solutions to banks, financial and other payment processing institutions and healthcare providers.
This reportable segment is comprised of two operating segments.
Other



We engage in the research, development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various materials on crystalline silicon photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels.
This reportable segment is comprised of one operating segment.
The CODM assesses the performance of each operating segment and allocates resources to those segments based on total revenue and segment gross margin and does not evaluate the segments using discrete asset information.
Segment gross margin excludes corporate allocations and effects of foreign exchange rates, amortization of intangible assets, amortization of inventory fair value adjustments, and transaction costs associated with our acquisitions related to costs of revenues.
36

The following is a summary of results for each of our four reportable segments for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table reconciles total reportable segment revenue to total revenue for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table reconciles total segment gross margin to total income before income taxes for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________



(1)



Acquisition-related charges primarily include amortization of intangible assets, amortization of inventory fair value adjustments, and other acquisition-related costs classified or presented as part of costs of revenues.
Our significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe.
For geographical revenue reporting, revenues are attributed to the geographic location in which the customer is located.
Long-lived assets consist of land, property and equipment, net and are attributed to the geographic region in which they are located.
37

The following is a summary of revenues by geographic region, based on ship-to location, for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following is a summary of revenues by major products for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Wafer Inspection, and Patterning products are offered in Semiconductor Process Control segment.
Services are offered in multiple segments.
Other includes primarily refurbished systems, remanufactured legacy systems, and enhancements and upgrades for previous-generation products which are part of Semiconductor Process Control segment.
In the three months ended September 30, 2019, two customers accounted for approximately 17% and 12% of total revenues.
In the three months ended September 30, 2018, two customers accounted for approximately 15% and 10% of total revenues.
One customer on an individual basis accounted for greater than 10% of net accounts receivables at September 30, 2019 and June 30, 2019.
Land, property and equipment, net by geographic region as of the dates indicated below were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 38

NOTE 19 – RESTRUCTURING CHARGES



In September 2019, management approved a plan to streamline our organization and business processes that included the reduction of workforce, which is expected to be completed in the second half of our fiscal year 2021, primarily in our PCB, Display and Component Inspection segment, and a potential disposition of our solar energy business in our Other segment.
Restructuring charges were immaterial for the three months ended September 30, 2019.
Proceeds from disposition of our solar energy business are not expected to be material.
We expect to incur additional restructuring charges, including additional severance costs and other related costs in future periods in connection with the completion of our workforce reduction.
ITEM 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information set forth above under Note 14, “Litigation and Other Legal Matters,” to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part 1 is incorporated herein by reference.
Risks Associated with Our Industry 



Ongoing changes in the technology industry, as well as the semiconductor industry in particular, could expose our business to significant risks.
The industries that we serve, including the semiconductor, flat panel display and printed circuit board industries, are constantly developing and changing over time.
We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
Our customer base, particularly in the semiconductor industry, historically has been highly concentrated due to corporate consolidation, acquisitions and business closures.
•As a result of this consolidation, the customers that survive the consolidation represent a greater portion of our sales and, consequently, have greater commercial negotiating leverage.
•Certain customers have undergone significant ownership changes, created alliances with other companies, experienced management changes or have outsourced manufacturing activities, any of which may result in additional complexities in managing customer relationships and transactions.
•The highly concentrated business environment also increases our exposure to risks related to the financial condition of each of our customers.
For example, as a result of the challenging economic environment during fiscal year 2009, we were (and in some cases continue to be) exposed to additional risks related to the continued financial viability of certain of our customers.
To the extent our customers experience liquidity issues in the future, we may be required to incur additional bad debt expense with respect to receivables owed to us by those customers.
•Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s process control and yield management equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time.
In addition, when products are initially introduced, they tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin.
54

We operate in industries that have historically been cyclical, including the semiconductor industry.
If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed.
The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the industries in which we serve are difficult to predict.
Furthermore, any workforce reductions and cost reduction actions that we adopt in response to down cycles may result in additional restructuring charges, disruptions in our operations and loss of key personnel.
In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand.
We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles.
The primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips.
That driver appears to be slowing, which may cause semiconductor manufacturers to delay investments in equipment, investigate more complex device architectures, use new materials and develop innovative fabrication processes.
These and other evolving customer plans and needs require us to respond with continued development programs and cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support.
Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees.
We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to enhance the performance, features and functionality of our products, to keep pace with competitive products and to satisfy customer demands.
Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products.
There can be no assurance that revenues from future products or product enhancements will be sufficient to recover the development costs associated with such products or enhancements.
In addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us.
In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks.
However, our products are very technologically complex and rely on the interconnection of numerous subcomponents (all of which must perform to their respective specifications), so it is conceivable that a product for which we recognize revenue upon shipment may ultimately fail to meet the overall product’s required specifications.
We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from sales of inspection products.
Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights.
Our success is dependent in part on our technology and other proprietary rights.
We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies.
In addition, we at times engage in collaborative technology development efforts with our customers and suppliers, and these collaborations may constitute a key component of certain of our ongoing technology and product research and development projects.
56

We also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation.
We attempt to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality and other agreements with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants and through other security measures.
However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing.
In any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors.
Our industry includes large manufacturers with substantial resources to support customers worldwide.
Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess.
We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer.
In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets.
We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials.
We generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers.
Because of the variability and uniqueness of customers’ orders, we do not maintain an extensive inventory of materials for manufacturing.
Through our business interruption planning, we seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by, among other things, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers, identifying (but not necessarily qualifying) possible alternative suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts.
Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, certain key parts are available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.
We attempt to operate our business in accordance with a business plan that is established annually, revised frequently (generally quarterly), and reviewed by management even more frequently (at least monthly).
In addition, our management is constantly striving to balance the requirements and demands of our customers with the availability of resources, the need to manage our operating model and other factors.
In furtherance of those efforts, we often must exercise discretion and judgment as to the timing and prioritization of manufacturing, deliveries, installations and payment scheduling.
We have a leveraged capital structure.
As of September 30, 2019, we had $3.45 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes.
Additionally, we have commitments for an unfunded Revolving Credit Facility of $1.00 billion under the Credit Agreement.
We may incur additional indebtedness in the future by accessing the unfunded portion of our Revolving Credit Facility and/or entering into new financing arrangements.
For example, at the same time we announced our intention to acquire Orbotech, we also announced a new stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase up to $2.00 billion of our common stock, a large portion of which would be financed with new indebtedness.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.
In addition, the interest rates of the senior, unsecured long-term notes may be subject to adjustments from time to time if Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”), Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) or, under certain circumstances, a substitute rating agency selected by us as a replacement for Moody’s or S&P, as the case may be (a “Substitute Rating Agency”), downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the respective series of notes such that the adjusted rating is below investment grade.
58

In certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of a series of notes by at least two of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Inc., unless we have exercised our right to redeem the notes of such series, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all or, at the holder’s option, any part, of each holder’s notes of that series pursuant to the offer described below (the “Change of Control Offer”).
In the Change of Control Offer, we will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
We cannot make any assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources at such time or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price of that series of notes.
Our ability to repurchase that series of notes in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with that series of notes, or by the terms of other agreements to which we may be party at such time.
If we fail to repurchase that series of notes as required by the terms of such notes, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing that series of notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other of our obligations.
Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a floating rate, and an increase in interest rates would require us to pay additional interest on any borrowings, which may have an adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our debt and the market price of our common stock could decline.
The interest rate under our Revolving Credit Facility is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades.
Additionally, under our Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, which include the maintenance of certain financial ratios, the details of which can be found in Note 8, “Debt,” to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
If we fail to comply with these covenants, we will be in default and our borrowings will become immediately due and payable.
There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources or we will be able to arrange financing to repay our borrowings at such time.
In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries are required to guarantee our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility.
Furthermore, our future operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our future expenses and service our new debt obligations, which may impact our ability to manage our capital structure to preserve and maintain our investment grade rating.
If our future operations do not generate sufficient cash flows, we may need to access the money available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility or enter into new financing arrangements to obtain necessary funds.
If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, we may not be able to obtain it on acceptable terms.
Any borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will place further pressure on us to comply with the financial covenants.
If we fail to make a payment associated with our debt obligations, we could be in default on such debt, and such a default could cause us to be in default on our other obligations.
59

There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
Our Board of Directors first instituted a quarterly dividend during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005.
Since that time, we have announced a number of increases in the amount of our quarterly dividend level as well as payment of a special cash dividend that was declared and substantially paid in the second quarter of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2015.
We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
In situations where we engage in business with a third party without an explicit master agreement regarding the applicable terms and conditions, or where the commercial documentation applicable to the transaction is subject to varying interpretations, we may have disputes with those third parties regarding the applicable terms and conditions of our business relationship with them.
In addition, in our commercial agreements, from time to time in the normal course of business we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers, suppliers and lessors, with respect to certain matters.
We are also exposed to potential costs associated with unexpected product performance issues.
Our products and production processes are extremely complex and thus could contain unexpected product defects, especially when products are first introduced.
60

Furthermore, we occasionally enter into volume purchase agreements with our larger customers, and these agreements may provide for certain volume purchase incentives, such as credits toward future purchases.
We believe that these arrangements are beneficial to our long-term business, as they are designed to encourage our customers to purchase higher volumes of our products.
However, these arrangements could require us to recognize a reduced level of revenue for the products that are initially purchased, to account for the potential future credits or other volume purchase incentives.
Our volume purchase agreements require significant estimation for the amounts to be accrued depending upon the estimate of volume of future purchases.
As such, we are required to update our estimates of the accruals on a periodic basis.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments.
Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments.
If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection.
To date, we have made no significant accruals in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for this contingency.
While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
There are risks associated with our receipt of government funding for research and development.
We are exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally.
Governments and government agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, or a project may be terminated by mutual agreement if the parties determine that the project’s goals or milestones are not being achieved, so there is no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future.
In addition, under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs.
Any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program.
For example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded.
Historically, we have recorded material restructuring charges related to our prior global workforce reductions, large excess inventory write-offs, and material impairment charges related to our goodwill and purchased intangible assets.
Such additional write-offs could result in material charges.
61

In the past, we have recorded material charges related to the impairment of our goodwill and purchased intangible assets.
Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the net fair value of net assets acquired in a business combination.
Goodwill is not amortized, but is instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with authoritative guidance for goodwill.
Purchased intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives based on economic benefit if known or using the straight-line method, and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with authoritative guidance for long-lived assets.
A substantial decline in our stock price, or any other adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we previously used to calculate the value of our goodwill or intangible assets (and, as applicable, the amount of any previous impairment charge), could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an additional impairment charge.
We are exposed to risks related to our financial arrangements with respect to receivables factoring and banking arrangements.
We enter into factoring arrangements with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse.
In addition, we maintain bank accounts with several domestic and foreign financial institutions, any of which may prove not to be financially viable.
However, by entering into these arrangements, and by engaging these financial institutions for banking services, we are exposed to additional risks.
We are subject to the risks of additional government actions in the event we were to breach the terms of any settlement arrangement into which we have entered.
In connection with the settlement of certain government actions and other legal proceedings related to our historical stock option practices, we have explicitly agreed as a condition to such settlements that we will comply with certain laws, such as the books and records provisions of the federal securities laws.
We expect that these conditions will continue in the foreseeable future.
Managing global operations and sites located throughout the world presents a number of challenges, including but not limited to:



•managing cultural diversity and organizational alignment;



•exposure to the unique characteristics of each region in the global market, which can cause capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period;



•periodic local or international economic downturns;



•potential adverse tax consequences, including withholding tax rules that may limit the repatriation of our earnings, and higher effective income tax rates in foreign countries where we do business;



•compliance with customs regulations in the countries in which we do business;



•tariffs or other trade barriers (including those applied to our products or to parts and supplies that we purchase);



•political instability, natural disasters, legal or regulatory changes, acts of war or terrorism in regions where we have operations or where we do business;



 62

•fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates may adversely impact our ability to compete on price with local providers or the value of revenues we generate from our international business.
Although we attempt to manage some of our near-term currency risks through the use of hedging instruments, there can be no assurance that such efforts will be adequate;



•receiving prepayments for certain of our products and services sold in certain jurisdictions.
These prepayments increase our cash flows for the quarter in which they are received.
If our practice of requiring prepayments in those jurisdictions changes or deteriorates, our cash flows would be harmed.
•longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States;



•difficulties in managing foreign distributors (including monitoring and ensuring our distributors’ compliance with applicable laws); and



•inadequate protection or enforcement of our intellectual property and other legal rights in foreign jurisdictions.
In addition, government controls, either by the United States or other countries, that restrict our business overseas or the import or export of our products or increase the cost of our operations through the imposition of tariffs or otherwise, could harm our business.
For example, effective on October 30, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce added Fujian Jinhua Integrated Circuit Company, Ltd. (“JHICC”) to its entity list, restricting exports of technology to JHICC without a license.
Demand for our products is ultimately driven by the global demand for electronic devices by consumers and businesses.
In addition, the tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit that accompanied that slowdown made it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell.
Our investment portfolio includes corporate and government securities, money market funds and other types of debt and equity investments.
There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of future legal proceedings, claims or investigations.
We are exposed to various risks related to the legal, regulatory and tax environments in which we perform our operations and conduct our business.
We are subject to various risks related to compliance with new, existing, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries in which we operate and with which we must comply, including environmental, safety, antitrust, anti-corruption/anti-bribery, unclaimed property and export control regulations.
Our failure or inability to comply with existing or future laws, rules or regulations, or changes to existing laws, rules or regulations (including changes that result in inconsistent or conflicting laws, rules or regulations), in the countries in which we operate could result in violations of contractual or regulatory obligations that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to conduct our business.
Our properties and many aspects of our business operations are subject to various domestic and international environmental laws and regulations, including those that control and restrict the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances.
Any failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations or requirements may subject us to a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of certain of our business activities, limitations on our ability to sell our products, obligations to remediate environmental contamination, and criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions.
In addition, changes in environmental regulations (including regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions) could require us to invest in potentially costly pollution control equipment, alter our manufacturing processes or use substitute (potentially more expensive and/or rarer) materials.
In addition, we may from time to time be involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding employment, immigration, contracts, product performance, product liability, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, unfair competition and other matters.
Our employees are vital to our success, and our key management, engineering and other employees are difficult to replace.
Further, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees.
The expansion of high technology companies worldwide has increased demand and competition for qualified personnel.
64

We outsource a number of services to third-party service providers, which decreases our control over the performance of these functions.
We outsource a number of services, including our transportation, information systems management and logistics management of spare parts and certain accounting and procurement functions, to domestic and overseas third-party service providers.
While outsourcing arrangements may lower our cost of operations, they also reduce our direct control over the services rendered.
In addition, many of these outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage.
These providers’ cloud computing systems may be susceptible to “cyber incidents,” such as intentional cyber attacks aimed at theft of sensitive data or inadvertent cyber-security compromises, which are outside of our control.
We are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity threats and cyber incidents.
In the conduct of our business, we collect, use, transmit and store data on information systems.
This data includes confidential information, transactional information and intellectual property belonging to us, our customers and our business partners, as well as personally-identifiable information of individuals.
We allocate significant resources to network security, data encryption and other measures to protect our information systems and data from unauthorized access or misuse.
Despite our ongoing efforts to enhance our network security measures, our information systems are susceptible to computer viruses, cyber-related security breaches and similar disruptions from unauthorized intrusions, tampering, misuse, criminal acts, including phishing, or other events or developments that we may be unable to anticipate or fail to mitigate and are subject to the inherent vulnerabilities of network security measures.
We have experienced cyber-related attacks in the past, and may experience cyber-related attacks in the future.
Our security measures may also be breached due to employee errors, malfeasance, or otherwise.
Third parties may also attempt to influence employees, users, suppliers or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our, our customers’ or business partners’ data.
Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to the information systems change frequently, and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.
We carry insurance that provides some protection against the potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident but it will not likely cover all such losses, and the losses that it does not cover may be significant.
We rely upon certain critical information systems for our daily business operations.
Our global operations are dependent upon certain information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications.
Any disruptions or difficulties that may occur in connection with our ERP system or other systems (whether in connection with the regular operation, periodic enhancements, modifications or upgrades of such systems or the integration of our acquired businesses into such systems) could adversely affect our ability to complete important business processes, such as the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
65

Acquisitions are an important element of our strategy but, because of the uncertainties involved, we may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses.
We are also exposed to risks in connection with strategic alliances into which we may enter.
In addition to our efforts to develop new technologies from internal sources, part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions and acquire new technologies from external sources.
As part of this effort, in February 2019, we announced that we had consummated our acquisition of Orbotech.
In addition, we may lose key employees of the acquired companies.
