ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
3

KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
4

KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
5

KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
6

KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
7

KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
8

KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



(Unaudited)



NOTE 1 – BASIS OF PRESENTATION



Basis of Presentation.
For purposes of this report, “KLA,” “KLA-Tencor,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us,” or similar references mean KLA-Tencor Corporation, and its majority-owned subsidiaries unless the context requires otherwise.
The condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, the unaudited interim financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair statement of the financial position, results of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the periods indicated.
These financial statements and notes, however, should be read in conjunction with Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, filed with the SEC on August 6, 2018.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of KLA and its majority-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other interim period or for the full fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to conform to the current year presentation.
The reclassifications did not have material effects on the prior year’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income and Cash Flows.
Acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. On February 20, 2019 (the “Closing Date” or “Acquisition Date”), we completed the acquisition of Orbotech, Ltd. (“Orbotech”) for $38.86 in cash and 0.25 of a share of our common stock in exchange for each ordinary share of Orbotech for a total consideration of $3.26 billion.
The acquisition of Orbotech is referred to as the “Orbotech Acquisition”.
The Orbotech Acquisition was accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements in this report include the financial results of Orbotech prospectively from the Acquisition Date.
For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations.”



Management Estimates.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Comparability.
Effective on the first day of fiscal 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”).
Prior periods were not retrospectively restated, and accordingly, the consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2018, and the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 were prepared using accounting standards that were different than those in effect for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.
Recently Adopted



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASC 606, which supersedes the guidance in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (“ASC 605”).
Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, ASC 606 requires enhanced disclosures, including disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
We adopted the ASC 606 as of July 1, 2018 in our first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition approach.
For additional detail, refer to Note 2 “Revenue.” 



 9

In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for financial instruments primarily related to equity investments (other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee), financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update intended to clarify how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a retrospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when they occur.
This eliminates the exception to postpone recognition until the asset has been sold to an outside party.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a modified retrospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard on clarifying the definition of a business, with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by removing the second step of the two-step impairment test, which requires an entity to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities similar to what is required in a purchase price allocation.
Under the update, goodwill impairment will be calculated as the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds our fair value.
We early adopted this update in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the statements of operations classification of net periodic benefit cost related to defined benefit pension and/or other post-retirement benefit plans.
Under the update, employers will present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost in the same statements of operations line item(s) as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period.
Only the service cost component will be eligible for capitalization in assets.
Employers will present the other components of the net periodic benefit costs separately from the line item(s) that includes the service cost and outside of any subtotal of operating income, if one is presented.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a retrospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update regarding stock compensation that provides guidance about which changes to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in order to reduce diversity in practice and reduce complexity.
We adopted this update beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 on a prospective basis and the adoption had no material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to hedge accounting to better align risk management activities by refining financial and non-financial hedging strategy eligibilities.
This update also amends the presentation and disclosure requirements to increase transparency to better understand an entity’s risk exposures and how hedging strategies are used to manage those exposures.
We early adopted this update in the second quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 under the modified retrospective approach.
The cumulative effect adjustment for the elimination of the ineffectiveness was not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
The presentation and disclosure have been amended on a prospective basis, as required by this update.
We early adopted this update in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and applied this update in the period of adoption.
As a result of the adoption, we made a reclassification from AOCI to beginning retained earnings of approximately $10.9 million related to the stranded tax effects.
10

Updates Not Yet Effective



In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which amends the existing accounting standards for leases.
Consistent with current guidance, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on our classification.
Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for all leases with lease terms of more than 12 months using a modified retrospective transition method.
In July 2018, the FASB issued an amendment to the standard which provides us an option to apply the practical expedient allowed in the standard retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of adoption.
The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets.
Under the update, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses.
The update also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination.
The update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with early adoption permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2020.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update which modifies the existing accounting standards for fair value measurement disclosure.
This update eliminates the disclosure of the amount of and reasons for transfers between level 1 and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and the policy for timing of transfers between levels.
This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to amend the disclosure requirements related to defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans.
Some of the changes include adding a disclosure requirement for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period and removing the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year.
This standard update is effective for us for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, and early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The guidance clarifies which costs should be capitalized including the cost to acquire the license and the related implementation costs.
This standard update is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending June 30, 2021, with an option to be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively.
Early adoption is permitted.
We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Significant Accounting Policies.
We updated our accounting policies for Revenue Recognition, Business Combinations, Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), and Derivative Financial Instruments.
Revenue Recognition.
We primarily derive revenue from the sale of process control and yield management solutions for the semiconductor and related nanoelectronics industries, maintenance and support of all these products, installation and training services and the sale of spare parts.
Our solutions provide a comprehensive portfolio of inspection, metrology and data analytics products, which are accompanied by a flexible portfolio of services to enable our customers to maintain the performance and productivity of the solutions purchased.
11

Our revenues are measured based on consideration stipulated in the arrangement with each customer, net of any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties, such as sales taxes.
The revenues are recognized as separate performance obligations that are satisfied by transferring control of the product or service to the customer.
Our arrangements with our customers include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
A product or service is considered distinct if it is separately identifiable from other deliverables in the arrangement and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer.
The transaction consideration, including any sales incentives, is allocated between separate performance obligations of an arrangement based on the stand-alone selling prices (“SSP”) for each distinct product or service.
From time to time, our contracts are modified to account for additional, or to change existing, performance obligations.
Our contract modifications are generally accounted for prospectively.
Product revenue



We recognize revenue from product sales at a point in time when we have satisfied our performance obligation by transferring control of the product to the customer.
We use judgment to evaluate whether the control has transferred by considering several indicators, including:



•whether we have a present right to payment;



•the customer has legal title;



•the customer has physical possession;



•the customer has significant risk and rewards of ownership; and



•the customer has accepted the product, or whether customer acceptance is considered a formality based on history of acceptance of similar products (for example, when the customer has previously accepted the same tool, with the same specifications, and when we can objectively demonstrate that the tool meets all of the required acceptance criteria, and when the installation of the system is deemed perfunctory).
Not all of the indicators need to be met for us to conclude that control has transferred to the customer.
In circumstances in which revenue is recognized prior to the product acceptance, the portion of revenue associated with our performance obligations to install product is deferred and recognized upon acceptance.
We enter into volume purchase agreements with some of our customers.
We adjust the transaction consideration for estimated credits earned by our customers for such incentives.
These credits are estimated based upon the forecasted and actual product sales for any given period and agreed-upon incentive rate.
The estimate is updated at each reporting period.
The primary difference between perpetual and term licenses is the duration over which the customer can benefit from the use of the software, while the functionality and the features of the software are the same.
Software is generally bundled with post-contract customer support (“PCS”), which includes unspecified software updates that are made available throughout the entire term of the arrangement.
Revenue from software licenses is recognized at a point in time, when the software is made available to the customer.
Revenue from PCS is deferred at contract inception and recognized ratably over the service period, or as services are performed.
Services and spare parts revenue



The majority of product sales include a standard 6 to 12-month warranty that is not separately paid for by the customers.
The customers may also purchase extended warranty for periods beyond the initial year as part of the initial product sale.
We have concluded that the standard 12-month warranty as well as any extended warranty periods included in the initial product sales are separate performance obligations.
The estimated fair value of warranty services is deferred and recognized ratably as revenue over the warranty period, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of warranty services provided by us.
12

Additionally, we offer product maintenance and support services, which the customer may purchase separately from the standard and extended warranty offered as part of the initial product sale.
Revenue from separately negotiated maintenance and support service contracts is also recognized over time based on the terms of the applicable service period.
Revenue from services performed in the absence of a maintenance contract, including training revenue, is recognized when the related services are performed.
We also sell spare parts, revenue from which is recognized when control over the spare parts is transferred to the customer.
Installation services include connecting and validating configuration of the product.
In addition, several testing protocols are completed to confirm the equipment is performing to customer specifications.
Revenue from product installation are deferred and recognized at a point in time, once installation is complete.
Significant Judgments



 Our contracts with our customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services.
Each product and service is generally capable of being distinct and represents a separate performance obligation.
Determining the SSP for each distinct performance obligation and allocation of consideration from an arrangement to the individual performance obligations and the appropriate timing of revenue recognition are significant judgments with respect to these arrangements.
We typically estimate the SSP of products and services based on observable transactions when the products and services are sold on a standalone basis and those prices fall within a reasonable range.
We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of these products by customers and circumstances.
In these instances, we use information such as the size of the customer, geographic region, as well as customization of the products in determining the SSP.
These credits and incentives are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if and when additional information becomes available.
Not all of the indicators need to be met for us to conclude that control has transferred to the customer.
A receivable is recorded in the period we deliver products or provide services when we have an unconditional right to payment.
Contract assets primarily relate to the value of products and services transferred to the customer for which the right to payment is not just dependent on the passage of time.
Contract assets are transferred to receivable when rights to payment become unconditional.
A contract liability is recognized when we receive payment or have an unconditional right to payment in advance of the satisfaction of performance.
The contract liabilities represent (1) deferred product revenue related to the value of products that have been shipped and billed to customers and for which the control has not been transferred to the customers, and (2) deferred service revenue, which is recorded when we receive consideration, or such consideration is unconditionally due, from a customer prior to transferring services to the customer under the terms of a contract.
Deferred service revenue typically results from warranty services, and maintenance and other service contracts.
Contract assets and liabilities related to rights and obligations in a contract are recorded net in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Upon the adoption of ASC 606, deferred costs of revenue are included in other current assets while under the legacy guidance deferred costs of revenue was included in deferred system profit.
13

Business Combinations.
We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of our acquisitions to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (“IPR&D”), based on their estimated fair values.
The excess of the fair value of the purchase price over the fair values of these net tangible and intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Management’s estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but our estimates and assumptions are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement.
As a result, during the measurement period, which will not exceed one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill.
Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of the purchase price of our acquisitions, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The fair value of IPR&D is initially capitalized as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment



thereafter.
When an IPR&D project is completed, the IPR&D is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and amortized over the asset’s estimated useful life.
Derivative Financial Instruments.
We use financial instruments, such as forward exchange contracts and currency options, to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions.
The effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to offset the effect of exchange rate changes on the underlying hedged items.
We also use interest rate lock agreements to hedge the risk associated with the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of the intended debt financing.
We believe these financial instruments do not subject us to speculative risk that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates or interest rates.
All of our derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices for comparable instruments adjusted for risk of counterparty non-performance.
For derivative instruments designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges of forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions or debt financing expected to occur within twelve to eighteen months, the effective portion of the gains or losses is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Prior to adopting the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, time value was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Time value was amortized on a mark-to-market basis and recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract.
For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
The change in fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings.
The assessment effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance.
The initial value of the component excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contracts.
Any difference between change in the fair value of the excluded components and the amounts recognized in earnings are recorded in OCI.
For derivative instruments that are not designated as a cash flow hedge, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income), net.
We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities.
The gains and losses on these derivative instruments are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income.
As a result, the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were being evaluated to determine if the deferred tax assets and liabilities should be recognized for the basis differences expected to reverse as a result of GILTI provisions that are effective for the Company after the fiscal year ending June 30, 2018, or should the tax on GILTI provisions be recognized as period costs in each year incurred.
The Company has elected to account for GILTI as a component of current period tax expense starting from the first quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019.
14

NOTE 2 – REVENUE



New Revenue Accounting Standard



Method and Impact of Adoption



At the beginning of the fiscal year 2019, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective transition approach for all contracts completed and not completed as of the date of adoption.
Under the modified retrospective transition approach, periods prior to the adoption date were not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with ASC 605.
A cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 was recorded to the beginning retained earnings to reflect the impact of all existing arrangements under ASC 606.
The cumulative effect of applying ASC 606 represents a net decrease of $21.0 million as of July 1, 2018, which primarily related to the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•An increase in retained earnings of approximately $26.0 million due to a change in the timing of transfer of control over products to the customers.
Under ASC 606, revenue is recognized earlier than it would have been recognized under legacy guidance primarily due to our assessment of timing of transfer of control.
Additionally, we render standard warranty coverage on our products for 12 months, providing labor and parts necessary to repair and maintain the products during the warranty period.
Upon adoption of ASC 606, the standard warranty for the majority of products is recognized as a separate performance obligation in service revenue.
Orbotech adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018, and the effect of adopting the ASC 606 on Orbotech’s revenues and operating income was not material.
Orbotech’s contracts under ASC 606 supports the recognition of revenue at a point in time for the majority of its contracts, which is consistent with its legacy revenue recognition model.
Revenue on the majority of Orbotech’s contracts will continue to be recognized upon delivery because this represents the point in time at which control is transferred to the customers.
Revenues derived from performance obligations such as warranty and service contracts will continue to be recognized over the period of the service.
The change in contract assets during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 was mainly due to an increase in contract assets of $71.1 million from the Orbotech Acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 and $19.4 million of revenue recognized in excess of the amounts billed to the customers, partially offset by $14.7 million of contract assets reclassified to net accounts receivable as our right to consideration for these contract assets became unconditional.
Contract assets are included in Other current assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
16

During the nine months ended March 31, 2019, we recognized revenue of $422.3 million that was included in contract liabilities as of July 1, 2018.
This was partially offset by an increase in contract liabilities of $28.8 million from the Orbotech Acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019, and the value of products and services billed to customers for which control of the products and service has not transferred to the customers.
Remaining Performance Obligations



As of March 31, 2019, we had $1.73 billion of remaining performance obligations, which represents our obligation to deliver products and services, and consists primarily of sales orders where written customer requests have been received.
We expect to recognize approximately 5% to 15% of these performance obligations as revenue beyond the next twelve months, subject to risk of delays, pushouts, and cancellation by the customer, usually with limited or no penalties.
Refer to Note 17 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” for information related to revenue by geographic region as well as significant product and service offerings.
Practical expedients



We apply the following practical expedients:



•We account for shipping and handling costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods, instead of a promised service to our customer.
•We have elected to not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component as we expect, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will generally be one year or less.
•We have elected to reflect the aggregate effect of all modifications that occurred before July 1, 2018 in determining the transaction price, identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, and allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations.
NOTE 3 – FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS



Our financial assets and liabilities are measured and recorded at fair value, except for our debt and certain equity investments in privately-held companies.
Prior to July 1, 2018, the equity investments were generally accounted for under the cost method of accounting and were periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment when an event or circumstance indicated that an other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.
Effective July 1, 2018, equity investments without a readily available fair value are accounted for using the measurement alternative.
The measurement alternative is calculated as cost minus impairment, if any, plus or minus changes resulting from observable price changes.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments.
We have evaluated the estimated fair value of financial instruments using available market information and valuations as provided by third-party sources.
The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies could have a significant effect on the estimated fair value amounts.
The fair value of our cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other current assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amounts due to the relatively short maturity of these items.
Fair Value Hierarchy.
The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).
The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below:



Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity has the ability to access.
Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
17

A financial instrument’s level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
As of March 31, 2019, the types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in active markets included money market funds, certain U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Government agency securities.
Such instruments are generally classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
The types of instruments valued based on other observable inputs included corporate debt securities and sovereign securities.
The market inputs used to value these instruments generally consist of market yields, reported trades and broker/dealer quotes.
Such instruments are generally classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The principal market in which we execute our foreign currency contracts is the institutional market in an over-the-counter environment with a relatively high level of price transparency.
The market participants generally are large financial institutions.
Our foreign currency contracts’ valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and quoted pricing intervals from public data sources and do not involve management judgment.
These contracts are typically classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of deferred payments and contingent consideration payable, the majority of which were recorded in connection with business combinations during the three months ended March 31, 2019, were classified as Level 3 and estimated using significant inputs that were not observable in the market.
See Note 6 “Business Combinations” for additional information.
Financial assets (excluding cash held in operating accounts and time deposits) and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of the date indicated below, were presented on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 ________________



(1) Excludes cash of $446.7 million held in operating accounts and time deposits of $55.0 million as of March 31, 2019.
18

Financial assets (excluding cash held in operating accounts and time deposits) and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as of the date indicated below, were presented on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________



(1) Excludes cash of $473.8 million held in operating accounts and time deposits of $54.5 million as of June 30, 2018.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the nine months ended March 31, 2019.
We did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis within Level 3 fair value measurements as of June 30, 2018.
See Note 8 “Debt” for disclosure of the fair value of our Senior Notes.
19

NOTE 4 – FINANCIAL STATEMENT COMPONENTS



Consolidated Balance Sheets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]________________



(1)Deferred costs of revenue were previously included under deferred system profit prior to the adoption of ASC 606.
20

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)



The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) as of the dates indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effects on net income (loss) of amounts reclassified from accumulated OCI to the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the indicated period were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ 



(1)Reflects the adoption of the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
For additional details, refer to Note 15, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” 



The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to our defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 were $0.2 million and $0.6 million, respectively.
The amounts reclassified out of accumulated OCI related to our defined benefit pension plans, which were recognized as a component of net periodic cost for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 were $0.4 million and $1.2 million, respectively.
For additional details, refer to Note 11, “Employee Benefit Plans” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
21

NOTE 5 – MARKETABLE SECURITIES



The amortized cost and fair value of marketable securities as of the dates indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________



(1) Time deposits excluded from fair value measurements.
Our investment portfolio consists of both corporate and government securities that have a maximum maturity of three years.
The longer the duration of these securities, the more susceptible they are to changes in market interest rates and bond yields.
As yields increase, those securities with a lower yield-at-cost show a mark-to-market unrealized loss.
Most of our unrealized losses are due to changes in market interest rates and bond yields.
We believe that we have the ability to realize the full value of all of these investments upon maturity.
As of March 31, 2019, we had 296 investments in an unrealized loss position.
The following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses of our investments that were in an unrealized loss position as of the date indicated below: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ 



(1) As of March 31, 2019, we had investments in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more with a gross amount $4.1 million.
22

The contractual maturities of securities classified as available-for-sale, regardless of their classification on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, as of the date indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
Realized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were immaterial.
NOTE 6 - BUSINESS COMBINATIONS



Orbotech Acquisition



On February 20, 2019, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding shares of Orbotech for aggregate purchase consideration of approximately $3.26 billion which was paid in part by cash of $1.90 billion, in part by KLA common shares with a fair value of $1.32 billion and the balance by the assumption of stock options and RSUs.
Orbotech is a global supplier of yield-enhancing and process-enabling solutions for the manufacture of electronics products.
Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation



The aggregate purchase consideration has been preliminarily allocated as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 23

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(3)Represents primarily cash consideration for the settlement of the vested stock options and restricted stock units for which services were rendered by the employees of Orbotech prior to the closing, and a small portion for the settlement of fractional shares.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(5)Represents the fair value of the assumed stock options and RSUs to the extent those related to services provided by the employee of Orbotech prior to closing.
Also refer to Note 9, “Equity, Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans and Non-Controlling Interest” for additional information about assumed stock options and RSUs.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



KLA allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the preliminary estimates of their estimated fair values, which were determined using generally accepted valuation techniques based on estimates and assumptions made by management at the time of the Orbotech Acquisition and are subject to change during the measurement period which is not expected to exceed one year.
The primary tasks that are required to be completed include validation of business level forecasts, jurisdictional forecasts, customer attrition rates and synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition of Orbotech, including any related tax impacts.
Any adjustments to our preliminary purchase price allocation identified during the measurement period will be recognized in the period in which the adjustments are determined.
The goodwill was primarily attributable to the assembled workforce of Orbotech, planned growth in new markets and synergies expected to be achieved from the combined operations of KLA-Tencor and Orbotech.
None of the goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes.
Goodwill arising from the Orbotech Acquisition has been allocated to Orbotech which KLA is treating as a separate component as of March 31, 2019.
As disclosed in Note 17 "Segment Reporting and Geographic Informaion", KLA is still in the process of completing the analysis of its segment reporting structure and upon completion of that analysis, goodwill associated with the Orbotech acquisition will be assigned to the appropriate reporting units.
24

Intangible Assets



The estimated fair value and weighted average useful life of the Orbotech intangible assets are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



________________



(1) Existing technology was identified from the products of Orbotech and its fair value was determined using the Relief-from-Royalty Method under the income approach, which estimates the cost savings generated by a company related to the ownership of an asset for which it would otherwise have had to pay royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset.
The discount rate used was determined at the time of measurement based on an analysis of the implied internal rate of return of the transaction, weighted average cost of capital and weighted average return on assets.
The economic useful life was determined based on the technology cycle related to each developed technology, as well as the cash flows over the forecast period.
(2) Customer contracts and related relationships represent the fair value of the existing relationships with the Orbotech customers and its fair value was determined using the Multi-Period Excess Earning Method which involves isolating the net earnings attributable to the asset being measured based on present value of the incremental after-tax cash flows (excess earnings) attributable solely to the intangible asset over its remaining useful life.
The economic useful life was determined based on historical customer turnover rates.
(3)Backlog primarily relates to the dollar value of purchase arrangements with customers, effective, as of a given point in time, that are based on mutually agreed terms which, in some cases, may still be subject to completion of written documentation and may be changed or cancelled by the customer, often without penalty.
Orbotech’s backlog consists of these arrangements with assigned shipment dates expected, in most cases, within three to twelve months.
The fair value was determined using the Multi-Period Excess Earning Method.
The economic useful life is based on the time to fulfill the outstanding order backlog obligation.
(4)Trade name primarily relates to the “Orbotech” trade name.
The fair value was determined by applying the relief-from-royalty method under the income approach.
The economic useful life was determined based on the expected life of the trade name.
(5) The favorable / unfavorable components of the acquired leases were determined using the Income Approach which involves present valuing the difference in future cash flows between the contracted lease payments and the rent payable to a market participant over the lease terms.
The economic useful life is based on the remaining lease term.
(6)The fair value of in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) was determined using the relief-from-royalty method under the income approach, which estimates the cost savings generated by a company related to the ownership of an asset for which it would otherwise have had to pay royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset.
We believe the amounts of purchased intangible assets recorded above represent the fair values of and approximate the amounts a market participant would pay for, these intangible assets as of the acquisition date.
Our statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 included revenue of $161.3 million and a net loss of $28.7 million from Orbotech.
Other Fiscal 2019 Acquisitions



During the three months ended March 31, 2019 we acquired three privately-held companies primarily to expand our products and services offerings for an aggregate purchase price of $118.0 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay additional consideration of up to $13.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones.
As of March 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $4.8 million, which is classified as a current liability on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
25

During the three months ended September 30, 2018 we acquired two privately-held companies for an aggregate purchase price of $15.4 million, including the fair value of the promise to pay total additional consideration of up to $6.0 million contingent on the achievement of certain milestones.
As of March 31, 2019, the estimated fair value of the additional consideration was $1.9 million, which is classified as a current liability on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The aggregate purchase price of the other fiscal 2019 acquisitions was allocated on a preliminary basis as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



A portion of the goodwill is deductible for income tax purposes.
Our statements of operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 included revenues of $2.3 million and $3.1 million, respectively, and net losses of $2.8 million and $3.5 million, respectively, from these privately-held companies.
KLA, in the aggregate for the Orbotech and other fiscal 2019 acquisitions, incurred approximately $37.2 million of acquisition-related costs, which are primarily included within selling, general and administrative expenses in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Fiscal 2018 Acquisition



In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018, we acquired a product line from Keysight Technologies, Inc., a related party, for a total purchase consideration of $12.1 million, of which $5.2 million was allocated to goodwill based on the fair value at the acquisition date.
For additional details, refer to Note 5 “Business Combinations,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Information:



The following unaudited pro forma financial information summarizes the combined results of operations for KLA-Tencor, Orbotech, and the three acquisitions completed in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as if the companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal year 2018.
The unaudited pro forma information includes adjustments to amortization and depreciation for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired, adjustments to stock-based compensation expense, the purchase accounting effect on inventory acquired, the purchase accounting effect on deferred revenue, interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with the Senior Notes financing, and transaction costs.
26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We have not included pro forma results of operations for the acquisition of privately-held companies completed in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 herein as they were not material to us on either an individual or in aggregate.
We included the results of operations of each acquisition in our condensed consolidated statements of operations from the date of each acquisition.
NOTE 7 – GOODWILL AND PURCHASED INTANGIBLE ASSETS



Goodwill



We currently have four reporting units: Wafer Inspection, Patterning, Global Service and Support (“GSS”), and Others.
The assignment of goodwill associated with Orbotech Acquisition to the reporting units has not yet been completed and therefore shown as a separate component.
Refer to Note 17 “Segment Reporting and Geographic Information” for additional details.
The following table presents goodwill carrying value and the movements during the nine months ended March 31, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The change in goodwill during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 resulted primarily from $1.77 billion related to the Orbotech Acquisition and $43.4 million related to the acquisition of the privately-held companies during the period.
For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations”.
We performed a qualitative assessment of the goodwill for our wafer inspection, patterning, GSS, and others reporting units during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Based on this assessment we concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded its carrying amount.
As a result of our determination based on our qualitative assessment, it was not necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test at this time.
In addition, for goodwill associated with the Orbotech acquisition, no impairment indicators were identified as part of our goodwill impairment process.
Based on our assessment, goodwill in the reporting units was not impaired as of March 31, 2019 or June 30, 2018.
27

Purchased Intangible Assets



The components of purchased intangible assets as of the dates indicated below were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Purchased intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable.
The change in purchased intangible assets gross carrying amount resulted primarily from the Orbotech Acquisition and the acquisition of the privately-held companies.
For additional details, refer to Note 6 “Business Combinations.”



Amortization expense for purchased intangible assets for the periods indicated below was as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Based on the purchased intangible assets gross carrying amount recorded as of March 31, 2019, the underlying assets, the remaining estimated annual amortization expense is expected to be as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 28

NOTE 8 – DEBT



The following table summarizes our debt as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of March 31, 2019, future principal payments for the long-term debt are $250.0 million in fiscal year 2020; $500.0 million in fiscal year 2022; and $2.70 billion after fiscal year 2023.
Senior Notes:



In March 2019 and November 2014, we issued $1.20 billion and $2.50 billion, respectively (each, a “2019 Senior Notes”, a “2014 Senior Notes”, and collectively the “Senior Notes”), aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes.
The interest rate specified for each series of the 2014 Senior Notes will be subject to adjustments from time to time if Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) or Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) or, under certain circumstances, a substitute rating agency selected by us as a replacement for Moody’s or S&P, as the case may be (a “Substitute Rating Agency”), downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the respective series of the 2014 Senior Notes such that the adjusted rating is below investment grade.
For additional details, refer to Note 7 “Debt” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Unlike the 2014 Senior Notes, the interest rate for each series of the 2019 Senior Notes will not be subject to such adjustments.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we entered into a series of forward contracts (the “2018 Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark interest rate with notional amount of $500.0 million in aggregate.
In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts to lock the 10-year treasury rate (“benchmark rate”) on a portion of the 2014 Senior Notes with a notional amount of $1.00 billion in aggregate.
For additional details on the forward contracts, refer to Note 15, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of this report.
The original discounts on the 2019 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes amounted to $6.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively and are being amortized over the life of the debt.
Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 of each year for the 2014 Senior Notes and semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year for the 2019 Senior Notes.
The indenture for the Senior Notes (the “Indenture”) includes covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and enter into sale and leaseback transactions, subject to certain allowances under which certain sale and leaseback transactions are not restricted.
In certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of a series of Senior Notes by at least two of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Inc., unless we have exercised our rights to redeem the Senior Notes of such series, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all or, at the holder’s option, any part, of each holder’s Senior Notes of that series pursuant to the offer described below (the “Change of Control Offer”).
In the Change of Control Offer, we will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Senior Notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
29

Based on the trading prices of the Senior Notes on the applicable dates, the fair value of the Senior Notes as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was approximately $3.61 billion and $2.33 billion, respectively.
While the Senior Notes are recorded at cost, the fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on quoted prices in markets that are not active; accordingly, the long-term debt is categorized as Level 2 for purposes of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
As of March 31, 2019, we were in compliance with all of our covenants under the Indenture associated with the Senior Notes.
Revolving Credit Facility:



In November 2017, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a $750.0 million five-year unsecured Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which replaced our prior Credit Facility.
Subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, the Revolving Credit Facility may be increased in an amount up to $250.0 million in the aggregate.
In November 2018, we entered into an Incremental Facility, Extension and Amendment Agreement (the “Amendment”), which amends the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the Maturity Date (the “Maturity Date”) from November 30, 2022 to November 30, 2023, (b) increase the total commitment by $250.0 million and (c) effect certain other amendments to the Credit Agreement as set forth in the Amendment.
After giving effect to the Amendment, the total commitments under the Credit Agreement are $1.00 billion.
During the third quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2019, we made borrowings of $900.0 million from the Revolving Credit Facility, which were paid in full in the same quarter.
As of March 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We may borrow, repay and reborrow funds under the Revolving Credit Facility until the Maturity Date, at which time such Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, and all outstanding loans under such facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, must be repaid.
We may prepay outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility at any time without a prepayment penalty.
Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either: (i) the Alternative Base Rate (“ABR”) plus a spread, which ranges from 0 bps to 75 bps, or (ii) the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a spread, which ranges from 100 bps to 175 bps.
The spreads under ABR and LIBOR are subject to adjustment in conjunction with credit rating downgrades or upgrades.
We are also obligated to pay an annual commitment fee on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility, which ranges from 10 bps to 25 bps, subject to an adjustment in conjunction with changes to our credit rating.
As of March 31, 2019, we pay an annual commitment fee of 12.5 bps on the daily undrawn balance of the Revolving Credit Facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires us to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters of no less than 3.50 to 1.00.
In addition, we are required to maintain the maximum leverage ratio as described in the Credit Agreement, on a quarterly basis of 3.00 to 1.00, covering the trailing four consecutive fiscal quarters for each fiscal quarter, which can be increased to 4.00 to 1.00 for a period of time in connection with a material acquisition or a series of material acquisitions.
As of March 31, 2019, we elected to increase the maximum allowed leverage ratio to 4.00 to 1.00 following the Orbotech Acquisition.
We were in compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2019.
NOTE 9 – EQUITY, LONG-TERM INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST



Equity Incentive Program 



As of March 31, 2019, we were able to issue new equity incentive awards, such as restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and stock options, to our employees, consultants and members of our Board of Directors under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2004 Plan”) with 11.8 million shares available for issuance.
30

Assumed Equity Plans



As of the Acquisition Date we assumed outstanding equity incentive awards under the following Orbotech equity incentive plans: (i) Equity Remuneration Plan for Key Employees of Orbotech Ltd. and its Affiliates and Subsidiaries (as Amended and Restated in 2005), (ii) 2010 Equity-Based Incentive Plan, and (iii) 2015 Equity-Based Incentive Plan (each, an “Assumed Equity Plan” and collectively the “Assumed Equity Plans”).
The awards under the Assumed Equity Plans, previously issued in the form of stock options and restricted share units (“RSUs”), were generally settled as follows:



a)Each award of Orbotech’s stock options and RSUs that was outstanding and vested immediately prior to the Acquisition Date (collectively the “Vested Equity Awards”) was canceled and terminated and converted into the right to receive the purchase consideration in respect of such Vested Equity Awards as of the Acquisition Date, and in the case of stock options, less the exercise price.
b)Each award of Orbotech’s stock options and RSUs that was outstanding and unvested immediately prior to the Acquisition Date was assumed by us (each, an “Assumed Option” and “Assumed RSU”, and collectively the “Assumed Equity Awards”) and converted to stock options and RSUs exercisable for the number of shares of our common stock equal to the product of (i) the number of Orbotech shares underlying such Assumed Equity Awards as of immediately prior to the Acquisition Date multiplied by (ii) the exchange ratio defined in the Acquisition Agreement.
The Assumed Equity Awards generally retain all of the rights, terms and conditions of the respective plans under which they were originally granted, including the same service-based vesting schedule, applicable thereto.
As of the Acquisition Date, the estimated fair value of the Assumed Equity Awards was $55.0 million, of which $13.3 million was recognized as goodwill and the balance of $41.7 million will be recognized as stock-based compensation expense over the remainder term of the Assumed Equity Awards.
The fair value of the Assumed Equity Awards for services rendered through the Acquisition Date was recognized as a component of the merger consideration, with the remaining fair value related to the post-combination services to be recorded as stock-based compensation over the remaining vesting period.
A total of 14,558 and 518,971 shares of our common stock underly the Assumed Options and RSUs and have an estimated weighted average fair value at the Acquisition Date of $53.27 and $104.49 per share, respectively.
As of March 31, 2019, there were 14,558 and 482,317 shares of our common stock underlying the outstanding Assumed Options and RSUs, respectively, under the Assumed Equity Plans.
The weighted-average remaining contractual terms, the aggregate intrinsic values, and the weighted average exercise price for the stock options outstanding under the Assumed Equity Plans as of March 31, 2019 were 4.67 years, $1.0 million, and $54.00 per share, respectively.
No Assumed Options were exercised during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Equity Incentive Plans - General Information



The following table summarizes the combined activity under our equity incentive plans:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 31

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(5)No additional stock options, RSUs or other awards will be granted under the Assumed Equity Plans.
The fair value of stock-based awards is measured at the grant date and is recognized as an expense over the employee’s requisite service period.
For RSUs granted without “dividend equivalent” rights, fair value is calculated using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends which are not accrued on those RSUs.
The fair value for RSUs granted with “dividend equivalent” rights is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date.
The fair value for market-based RSUs is estimated on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model with the following assumptions: expected volatility of 28.14%, based on a combination of implied volatility from traded options on our common stock and the historical volatility of our common stock; dividend yield of 2.47%, based on our current expectations about our anticipated dividend policy; risk-free interest rate of 2.38%, based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with terms equal to the contractual terms of each tranche; and an expected term which takes into consideration the vesting term and the contractual term of the market-based award.
The awards are amortized over service periods of 3, 4, and 5 years, which is the longer of the explicit service period or the period in which the market target is expected to be met.
The fair value for purchase rights under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan is determined using a Black-Scholes model.
The following table shows stock-based compensation expense for the indicated periods: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________



(1)Includes $10.9 million of stock-based compensation expense acceleration for certain equity awards for Orbotech employees.
The following table shows stock-based compensation capitalized as inventory as of the dates indicated below: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 32

Restricted Stock Units 



The following table shows the activity and weighted-average grant date fair value for RSUs during the nine months ended March 31, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(4)Represents Assumed RSUs under the Assumed Equity Plans.
Since the Assumed RSUs do not have “dividend equivalent” rights, the fair value was calculated using the closing price of our common stock on the Acquisition Date, adjusted to exclude the present value of dividends.
The RSUs granted by us generally vest (a) with respect to awards with only service-based vesting criteria, over periods ranging from two to four years and (b) with respect to awards with both performance-based and service-based vesting criteria, in two equal installments on the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date and (c) with respect to awards with both market-based and service-based vesting criteria in three equal installments on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant date, in each case subject to the recipient remaining employed by us as of the applicable vesting date.
The RSUs granted to the independent members of the Board of Directors vest annually.
The following table shows the weighted-average grant date fair value per unit for the RSUs granted, vested, and tax benefits realized by us in connection with vested and released RSUs for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of March 31, 2019, the unrecognized stock-based compensation expense balance related to RSUs was $171.5 million, excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures, and will be recognized over a weighted-average remaining contractual term and an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.6 years.
The intrinsic value of outstanding RSUs as of March 31, 2019 was $350.0 million.
33

Cash-Based Long-Term Incentive Compensation



We have adopted a cash-based long-term incentive (“Cash LTI Plan”) program for many of our employees as part of our employee compensation program.
Executives and non-employee members of the board of directors are not participating in this program.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we approved Cash LTI awards of $7.9 million and $5.9 million, respectively under our Cash LTI Plan.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recognized $12.2 million and 11.6 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we recognized $39.4 million and 37.9 million, respectively, in compensation expense under the Cash LTI Plan.
As of March 31, 2019, the unrecognized compensation balance (excluding the impact of estimated forfeitures) related to the Cash LTI Plan was $93.7 million.
For details, refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan



Our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) provides that eligible employees may contribute up to 15% of their eligible earnings toward the semi-annual purchase of our common stock.
The ESPP is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code.
The employee’s purchase price is derived from a formula based on the closing price of the common stock on the first day of the offering period versus the closing price on the date of purchase (or, if not a trading day, on the immediately preceding trading day).
The offering period (or length of the look-back period) under the ESPP has a duration of six months, and the purchase price with respect to each offering period beginning on or after such date is, until otherwise amended, equal to 85% of the lesser of (i) the fair market value of our common stock at the commencement of the applicable six-month offering period or (ii) the fair market value of our common stock on the purchase date.
We estimate the fair value of purchase rights under the ESPP using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of each purchase right under the ESPP was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model and the straight-line attribution approach with the following weighted-average assumptions: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table shows the tax benefits realized by us in connection with the disqualifying dispositions of shares purchased under the ESPP and the weighted-average fair value per share for the indicated periods: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The ESPP shares are replenished annually on the first day of each fiscal year by virtue of an evergreen provision.
The provision allows for share replenishment equal to the lesser of 2.0 million shares or the number of shares which we estimate will be required to be issued under the ESPP during the forthcoming fiscal year.
As of March 31, 2019, a total of 2.4 million shares were reserved and available for issuance under the ESPP.
34

Quarterly cash dividends



On January 31, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share on the outstanding shares of our common stock, which was paid on March 1, 2019 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 15, 2019.
The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $113.6 million and $92.1 million, respectively.
The total amount of regular quarterly cash dividends and dividend equivalents paid by us during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $348.0 million and $278.8 million, respectively.
The amount of accrued dividend equivalents payable for regular quarterly cash dividends on unvested RSUs with dividend equivalent rights as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018 was $6.5 million and $6.7 million, respectively.
These amounts will be paid upon vesting of the underlying RSUs.
Special cash dividend



On November 19, 2014, our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $16.50 per share on our outstanding common stock.
The declaration and payment of the special cash dividend was part of our leveraged recapitalization transaction under which the special cash dividend was financed through a combination of existing cash and proceeds from the debt financing disclosed in Note 8 “Debt” that was completed during the three months ended December 31, 2014.
The total amount of the special cash dividend accrued by us at the declaration date was substantially paid out during the three months ended December 31, 2014, except for the aggregate special cash dividend of $43.0 million that was accrued for the unvested RSUs and to be paid when such underlying unvested RSUs vest.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, all of the special cash dividends accrued with respect to outstanding RSUs were vested and paid in full.
During the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the total special cash dividends paid with respect to vested RSUs were $2.9 million and $6.3 million, respectively.
For details of the special cash dividend, refer to Note 8 “Equity and Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plans,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
Non-controlling Interest 



We have consolidated the results of Orbotech LT Solar, LLC (“OLTS”) and Orbograph Ltd. (“Orbograph”), in which we own approximately 84% and 94% of the outstanding equity interest, respectively.
OLTS is engaged in the research, development and marketing of products for the deposition of thin film coating of various materials on crystalline silicon photovoltaic wafers for solar energy panels through plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (“PECVD”).
Orbograph is engaged in the development and marketing of character recognition solutions to banks, financial and other payment processing institutions and healthcare providers.
Additionally, we have consolidated the results of PixCell, an Israeli company developing diagnostic equipment for point-of-care hematology applications of which we own approximately 52% of the outstanding equity interest and are entitled to appoint the majority of this company’s directors.
NOTE 10 – STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM 



Our Board of Directors has authorized a program which permits us to repurchase up to $2.00 billion of our common stock, reflecting an increase from $1.00 billion upon the close of the Orbotech Acquisition.
For additional details, refer to Note 1, “Basis of Presentation”.
The intent of this program is to offset the dilution from our equity incentive plans, employee stock purchase plan, the issuance of shares in the Orbotech Acquisition, as well as to return excess cash to our stockholders.
Subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors, the repurchases were made in the open market in compliance with applicable securities laws, including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder, such as Rule 10b-18 and Rule 10b5-1.
This stock repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended at any time.
As of March 31, 2019, an aggregate of approximately $1.21 billion was available for repurchase under our stock repurchase program.
Share repurchases for the indicated periods (based on the trade date of the applicable repurchase) were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of March 31, 2019, we had repurchased 0.1 million shares for $6.0 million, which repurchases had not settled prior to March 31, 2019.
The amount was recorded as a component of other current liabilities for the period presented.
35

NOTE 11 – NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE



Basic net income (loss) per share is calculated by dividing net income (loss) available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income (loss) per share is calculated by using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, increased to include the number of additional shares of common stock that would have been outstanding if the shares of common stock underlying our outstanding dilutive restricted stock units had been issued.
The dilutive effect of outstanding restricted stock units is reflected in diluted net income (loss) per share by application of the treasury stock method.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Orbotech Ltd. As a result of the Orbotech acquisition, we recorded $819.8 million of net deferred tax liabilities primarily on the excess of book basis over the tax basis of acquired intangible assets and undistributed earnings in certain foreign subsidiaries.
Adjustments to deferred taxes may be required when the purchase price allocation is finalized within the measurement period.
We are also subject to examinations in other major foreign jurisdictions.
In May 2017, Orbotech received an assessment from the Israel Tax Authority (“ITA”) with respect to its fiscal years 2012 through 2014 (the “Assessment”, and the “Audit Period”, respectively), for an aggregate amount of tax against it, after offsetting all NOLs for tax purposes available through the end of 2014, of approximately NIS 218.0 million (approximately $65.0 million as of March 31, 2019), which amount includes related interest and linkage differentials to the Israeli consumer price index (as of date of the Assessment).
On August 31, 2018, Orbotech filed an objection in respect of the tax assessment (the “Objection”).
Orbotech is now in the process of the second stage, in which the claims raised by it in the Objection are examined by different personnel at the ITA.
In addition, the ITA can examine additional items and may assess additional amounts in the second stage.
The second stage must be completed within one year of when the Objection was filed.
In connection with the above, there is an ongoing criminal investigation in Israel against Orbotech, which became our wholly owned subsidiary as of the acquisition date, certain of its employees and its tax consultant.
On April 11, 2018, Orbotech received a “suspect notification letter” (dated March 28, 2018) from the Tel Aviv District Attorney’s Office (Fiscal and Financial).
In the letter, it was noted that the investigation file was transferred from the Assessment Investigation Officer to the District Attorney’s Office.
The letter further states that the District Attorney’s Office has not yet made a decision regarding submission of an indictment against Orbotech; and that if after studying the case, a decision is made to consider prosecuting Orbotech, Orbotech will receive an additional letter, and within 30 days, Orbotech may present its arguments to the District Attorney’s Office as to why it should not be indicted.
To date, neither we nor Orbotech has received such an additional letter or any other correspondence or contact from the District Attorney’s Office.
We will continue to monitor the progress of the District Attorney’s Office investigation, however, cannot anticipate when the review of the case will be completed and what will be the results thereof.
We intend to cooperate with the District Attorney’s Office to enable them to conclude their investigation.
NOTE 13 – LITIGATION AND OTHER LEGAL MATTERS



We are named from time to time as a party to lawsuits and other types of legal proceedings and claims in the normal course of our business.
Moreover, the results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of outcome.
We believe the amounts provided in our condensed consolidated financial statements are adequate in light of the probable and estimated liabilities.
NOTE 14 – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Factoring.
We have agreements (referred to as “factoring agreements”) with financial institutions to sell certain of our trade receivables and promissory notes from customers without recourse.
We do not believe we are at risk for any material losses as a result of these agreements.
In addition, we periodically sell certain letters of credit (“LCs”), without recourse, received from customers in payment for goods and services.
Leases.
We lease certain of our facilities, autos and equipments under arrangements that are accounted for as operating leases.
Facilities rent expense was $3.1 million and $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively and was $7.8 million and $7.7 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively



The following is a schedule of expected operating lease payments:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Purchase Commitments.
We maintain commitments to purchase inventory from our suppliers as well as goods, services, and other assets in the ordinary course of business.
Our liability under these purchase commitments is generally restricted to a forecasted time-horizon as mutually agreed upon between the parties.
This forecasted time-horizon can vary among different suppliers.
Our estimate of our significant purchase commitments for primarily material, services, supplies and asset purchases is approximately $603.3 million as of March 31, 2019, which are primarily due within the next 12 months.
Actual expenditures will vary based upon the volume of the transactions and length of contractual service provided.
In addition, the amounts paid under these arrangements may be less in the event that the arrangements are renegotiated or canceled.
Certain agreements provide for potential cancellation penalties.
Cash Long-Term Incentive Plan.
As of March 31, 2019, we have committed $130.1 million for future payment obligations under our Cash LTI Plan.
The calculation of compensation expense related to the Cash LTI Plan includes estimated forfeiture rate assumptions.
Cash LTI awards issued to employees under the Cash LTI Plan vest in three or four equal installments, with one-third or one-fourth of the aggregate amount of the Cash LTI award vesting on each anniversary of the grant date over a three or four-year period.
In order to receive payments under a Cash LTI award, participants must remain employed by us as of the applicable award vesting date.
Guarantees and Contingencies.
We maintain guarantee arrangements available through various financial institutions for up to $45.1 million, of which $38.7 million had been issued as of March 31, 2019, primarily to fund guarantees to customs authorities for value-added tax (“VAT”) and other operating requirements of our subsidiaries in Europe, Israel and Asia.
38

Indemnification Obligations.
These obligations arise under the terms of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, applicable contracts, and Delaware and California law.
For example, we have paid or reimbursed legal expenses incurred in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the related litigation and government inquiries by several of our current and former directors, officers and employees.
Although the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under the indemnification obligations generally described in this paragraph is theoretically unlimited, we believe the fair value of this liability, to the extent estimable, is appropriately considered within the reserve we have established for currently pending legal proceedings.
We are a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters.
In each of these circumstances, payment by us is typically subject to the other party making a claim to and cooperating with us pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract.
Further, our obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of amounts, activity (typically at our option to replace or correct the products or terminate the agreement with a refund to the other party), and duration.
In some instances, we may have recourse against third parties and/or insurance covering certain payments made by us.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments.
Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments.
If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection.
To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency.
While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that it will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
NOTE 15 – DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES



The authoritative guidance requires companies to recognize all derivative instruments and hedging activities, including foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements, (collectively “derivatives”) as either assets or liabilities at fair value on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In accordance with the accounting guidance, we designate foreign currency exchange contracts and interest rate lock agreements as cash flow hedges of certain forecasted foreign currency denominated sales, purchase and spending transactions, and the benchmark interest rate of the corresponding debt financing, respectively.
As a result, we are exposed to risks relating to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
We utilize foreign currency forward exchange contracts and option contracts to hedge against future movements in foreign exchange rates that affect certain existing and forecasted foreign currency denominated sales and purchase transactions, such as the Japanese yen, the euro, the pound sterling and the Israeli new shekel.
We routinely hedge our exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations.
These currency forward exchange contracts and options, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than 18 months.
Cash flow hedges are evaluated for effectiveness monthly, based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives.
If a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience material losses.
39

In October 2014, we entered into a series of forward contracts (“Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark rate on a portion of the Senior Notes.
The Rate Lock Agreements were matured and terminated in the second quarter of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 and we recorded the fair value of $7.5 million as a gain within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“OCI”) as of December 31, 2014.
As of March 31, 2019, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the forward contracts for the Rate Lock Agreements was $4.2 million.
For more details, refer to Note 16, “Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2018.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we entered into a series of forward contracts (the “2018 Rate Lock Agreements”) to lock the benchmark interest rate prior to expected debt issuances.
The objective of the 2018 Rate Lock Agreements was to hedge the risk associated with the variability in interest rates due to the changes in the benchmark rate leading up to the closing of the intended financing on the notional amount being hedged.
The 2018 Rate Lock Agreement had a notional amount of $500.0 million in aggregate, which matured and terminated in the third quarter of fiscal year ending June 30, 2019 and we recorded the fair value of $13.6 million as a loss within OCI.
As of March 31, 2019, the unamortized portion of the fair value of the 2018 Rate Lock Agreements was $13.5 million.
For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gains or losses is reported in OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Prior to adopting the new accounting guidance for hedge accounting, time value was excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges.
Time value was amortized on a mark-to-market basis and recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract.
For derivative contracts executed after adopting the new accounting guidance, the election to include time value for the assessment of effectiveness is made on all forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges.
The change in fair value of the derivative are recorded in OCI until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.
The assessment of effectiveness of options contracts designated as cash flow hedges continue to exclude time value after adopting the new accounting guidance.
The initial value of the component excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in earnings over the life of the derivative contract.
Any difference between change in the fair value of the excluded components and the amounts recognized in earnings are recorded in OCI.
For derivatives that are not designated as cash flow hedges, gains and losses are recognized in other expense (income), net.
We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities.
The gains and losses on these derivative instruments are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged.
Derivatives in Cash Flow Hedging Relationships: Foreign Exchange and Interest Rate Contracts



The gains (losses) on derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships recognized in OCI for the indicated periods were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 40

The locations and amounts of designated and non-designated derivative’s gains and losses reported in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for the indicated periods were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 41

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The U.S. dollar equivalent of all outstanding notional amounts of foreign currency hedge contracts, with maximum remaining maturities of approximately ten months as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 42

The locations and fair value of our derivatives reported in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the dates indicated below were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The changes in OCI, before taxes, related to derivatives for the indicated periods were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Offsetting of Derivative Assets and Liabilities



We present derivatives at gross fair values in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We have entered into arrangements with each of our counterparties, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty under certain conditions.
The information related to the offsetting arrangements for the periods indicated was as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 43

NOTE 16 – RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS



During the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we purchased from, or sold to, several entities, where one or more of our executive officers or members of our Board of Directors, or their immediate family members, were, during the periods presented, an executive officer or a board member of a subsidiary, including Citrix Systems, Inc., Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Keysight Technologies, Inc., MetLife Insurance K.K., NetApp, Inc., and Proofpoint, Inc.
The following table provides the transactions with these parties for the indicated periods (for the portion of such period that they were considered related):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our receivable balances from these parties were $1.9 million as of March 31, 2019 and immaterial for June 30, 2018.
Our payable balance from these parties was immaterial at March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018.
NOTE 17 – SEGMENT REPORTING AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION



While we operate our business in multiple operating segments, we have only one reportable segment.
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
Our chief operating decision maker, who is our Chief Executive Officer, is in the process of completing an assessment of our reporting structure as of the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
We are in the process of determining the related impacts to our determination of operating and reportable segments.
Accordingly, the disclosures for the three and nine months ending March 31, 2019 reflects the current segment reporting disclosures of our operations with Orbotech presented as a separate component, where noted.
We currently expect to complete our assessment of our segment reporting structure within the fourth quarter.
Our service products are an extension of the system product portfolio and provide customers with spare parts and fab management services (including system preventive maintenance and optimization services) to improve yield, increase production uptime and throughput, and lower the cost of ownership.
Since we operate in one reportable segment, all financial segment information required by the authoritative guidance can be found in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Our significant operations outside the United States include manufacturing facilities in China, Germany, Israel and Singapore and sales, marketing and service offices in Japan, the rest of the Asia Pacific region and Europe.
For geographical revenue reporting, revenues are attributed to the geographic location in which the customer is located.
Long-lived assets consist of land, property and equipment, net and are attributed to the geographic region in which they are located.
44

The following is a summary of revenues by geographic region, based on ship-to location, for the indicated periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following is a summary of revenues by major products and for Orbotech in total for the indicated periods (as a percentage of total revenues):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________ 



(1) The Global Service and Support revenues include service revenues as presented in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations as well as certain product revenues, primarily revenues from our K-T Pro business.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, one customer accounted for approximately 19% of total revenues.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, two customers accounted for approximately 22% and 11% of total revenues.
In the nine months ended March 31, 2019, two customers accounted for approximately 15% and 11% of total revenues.
In the nine months ended March 31, 2018, one customer accounted for approximately 22% of total revenues.
One and three customers on an individual basis accounted for greater than 10% of net accounts receivables as of March 31, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.
Long-lived assets by geographic region as of the dates indicated below were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 18 – SUBSEQUENT EVENTS



On May 3, 2019, we announced that our Board of Directors had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.75 per share to be paid on June 4, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 15, 2019.
45

ITEM 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



The information set forth above under Note 13, “Litigation and Other Legal Matters,” to the condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 of Part 1 is incorporated herein by reference.
The industries that we serve, including the semiconductor, flat panel display and printed circuit board industries, are constantly developing and changing over time.
We are exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base.
•As a result of this consolidation, the customers that survive the consolidation represent a greater portion of our sales and, consequently, have greater commercial negotiating leverage.
•The highly concentrated business environment also increases our exposure to risks related to the financial condition of each of our customers.
•Semiconductor manufacturers generally must commit significant resources to qualify, install and integrate process control and yield management equipment into a semiconductor production line.
64

We operate in industries that have historically been cyclical, including the semiconductor industry.
If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed.
The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the industries in which we serve are difficult to predict.
In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand.
We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles.
These and other evolving customer plans and needs require us to respond with continued development programs and cut back or discontinue older programs, which may no longer have industry-wide support.
Technical innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles and appropriate staffing of highly qualified employees.
Substantial research and development costs typically are incurred before we confirm the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a new product, and not all development activities result in commercially viable products.
In addition, we cannot be sure that these products or enhancements will receive market acceptance or that we will be able to sell these products at prices that are favorable to us.
In addition, the complexity of our products exposes us to other risks.
However, our products are very technologically complex and rely on the interconnection of numerous subcomponents (all of which must perform to their respective specifications), so it is conceivable that a product for which we recognize revenue upon shipment may ultimately fail to meet the overall product’s required specifications.
We own various United States and international patents and have additional pending patent applications relating to some of our products and technologies.
In addition, we at times engage in collaborative technology development efforts with our customers and suppliers, and these collaborations may constitute a key component of certain of our ongoing technology and product research and development projects.
66

We also maintain trademarks on certain of our products and services and claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation.
However, these employees, consultants and third parties may breach these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for wrongdoing.
In any event, the extent to which we can protect our trade secrets through the use of confidentiality agreements is limited, and our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to innovate ahead of our competitors.
Some of our competitors are diversified companies with greater financial resources and more extensive research, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support capabilities than we possess.
We face competition from companies whose strategy is to provide a broad array of products and services, some of which compete with the products and services that we offer.
In addition, we face competition from smaller emerging companies whose strategy is to provide a portion of the products and services that we offer, using innovative technology to sell products into specialized markets.
We use a wide range of materials in the production of our products, including custom electronic and mechanical components, and we use numerous suppliers to supply these materials.
Through our business interruption planning, we seek to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and/or shortages of key parts by, among other things, monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers, identifying (but not necessarily qualifying) possible alternative suppliers and maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts.
Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple suppliers, certain key parts are available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.
We attempt to operate our business in accordance with a business plan that is established annually, revised frequently (generally quarterly), and reviewed by management even more frequently (at least monthly).
In addition, our management is constantly striving to balance the requirements and demands of our customers with the availability of resources, the need to manage our operating model and other factors.
In furtherance of those efforts, we often must exercise discretion and judgment as to the timing and prioritization of manufacturing, deliveries, installations and payment scheduling.
Our capital structure is highly leveraged.
As of March 31, 2019, we had $3.45 billion aggregate principal amount of senior, unsecured long-term notes.
Additionally, we have commitments for an unfunded Revolving Credit Facility of $1.00 billion under the Credit Agreement.
We may incur additional indebtedness in the future by accessing the unfunded portion of our Revolving Credit Facility and/or entering into new financing arrangements.
For example, at the same time we announced our intention to acquire Orbotech, we also announced a new stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase up to $2.00 billion of our common stock, a large portion of which would be financed with new indebtedness.
In addition, the interest rates of the senior, unsecured long-term notes may be subject to adjustments from time to time if Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”), Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) or, under certain circumstances, a substitute rating agency selected by us as a replacement for Moody’s or S&P, as the case may be (a “Substitute Rating Agency”), downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) its rating assigned to the respective series of notes such that the adjusted rating is below investment grade.
68

In certain circumstances involving a change of control followed by a downgrade of the rating of a series of notes by at least two of Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Inc., unless we have exercised our right to redeem the notes of such series, we will be required to make an offer to repurchase all or, at the holder’s option, any part, of each holder’s notes of that series pursuant to the offer described below (the “Change of Control Offer”).
In the Change of Control Offer, we will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of notes repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the notes repurchased, up to, but not including, the date of repurchase.
Our ability to repurchase that series of notes in such event may be limited by law, by the indenture associated with that series of notes, or by the terms of other agreements to which we may be party at such time.
If we fail to repurchase that series of notes as required by the terms of such notes, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing that series of notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other of our obligations.
Borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at a floating rate, and an increase in interest rates would require us to pay additional interest on any borrowings, which may have an adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our debt and the market price of our common stock could decline.
The interest rate under our Revolving Credit Facility is also subject to an adjustment in conjunction with our credit rating downgrades or upgrades.
Additionally, under our Revolving Credit Facility, we are required to comply with affirmative and negative covenants, which include the maintenance of certain financial ratios, the details of which can be found in Note 8, “Debt,” to our condensed consolidated financial statements.
If we fail to comply with these covenants, we will be in default and our borrowings will become immediately due and payable.
In addition, certain of our domestic subsidiaries are required to guarantee our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility.
Furthermore, our future operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our future expenses and service our new debt obligations, which may impact our ability to manage our capital structure to preserve and maintain our investment grade rating.
Any borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will place further pressure on us to comply with the financial covenants.
If we fail to make a payment associated with our debt obligations, we could be in default on such debt, and such a default could cause us to be in default on our other obligations.
69

There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
Our Board of Directors first instituted a quarterly dividend during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005.
Since that time, we have announced a number of increases in the amount of our quarterly dividend level as well as payment of a special cash dividend that was declared and substantially paid in the second quarter of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2015.
We intend to continue to pay quarterly dividends subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
In situations where we engage in business with a third party without an explicit master agreement regarding the applicable terms and conditions, or where the commercial documentation applicable to the transaction is subject to varying interpretations, we may have disputes with those third parties regarding the applicable terms and conditions of our business relationship with them.
In addition, in our commercial agreements, from time to time in the normal course of business we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers, suppliers and lessors, with respect to certain matters.
We are also exposed to potential costs associated with unexpected product performance issues.
70

Furthermore, we occasionally enter into volume purchase agreements with our larger customers, and these agreements may provide for certain volume purchase incentives, such as credits toward future purchases.
We believe that these arrangements are beneficial to our long-term business, as they are designed to encourage our customers to purchase higher volumes of our products.
However, these arrangements could require us to recognize a reduced level of revenue for the products that are initially purchased, to account for the potential future credits or other volume purchase incentives.
Our volume purchase agreements require significant estimation for the amounts to be accrued depending upon the estimate of volume of future purchases.
As such, we are required to update our estimates of the accruals on a periodic basis.
In addition, we may in limited circumstances enter into agreements that contain customer-specific commitments on pricing, tool reliability, spare parts stocking levels, response time and other commitments.
Furthermore, we may give these customers limited audit or inspection rights to enable them to confirm that we are complying with these commitments.
If a customer elects to exercise its audit or inspection rights, we may be required to expend significant resources to support the audit or inspection, as well as to defend or settle any dispute with a customer that could potentially arise out of such audit or inspection.
To date, we have made no significant accruals in our condensed consolidated financial statements for this contingency.
While we have not in the past incurred significant expenses for resolving disputes regarding these types of commitments, we cannot make any assurance that we will not incur any such liabilities in the future.
There are risks associated with our receipt of government funding for research and development.
We are exposed to additional risks related to our receipt of external funding for certain strategic development programs from various governments and government agencies, both domestically and internationally.
Governments and government agencies typically have the right to terminate funding programs at any time in their sole discretion, or a project may be terminated by mutual agreement if the parties determine that the project’s goals or milestones are not being achieved, so there is no assurance that these sources of external funding will continue to be available to us in the future.
In addition, under the terms of these government grants, the applicable granting agency typically has the right to audit the costs that we incur, directly and indirectly, in connection with such programs.
Any such audit could result in modifications to, or even termination of, the applicable government funding program.
For example, if an audit were to identify any costs as being improperly allocated to the applicable program, those costs would not be reimbursed, and any such costs that had already been reimbursed would have to be refunded.
