Item 1.
Financial Statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
1

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
2

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
3

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
4

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
5

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 1–Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation 



Leidos Holdings, Inc. ("Leidos"), a Delaware corporation is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiaries and principal operating companies are Leidos, Inc. and Leidos Innovations Corporation ("Leidos Innovations").
Leidos is a FORTUNE 500® science, engineering and information technology company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets.
Leidos' domestic customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, several other U.S. government civil agencies and state and local government agencies.
The Company operates in three reportable segments: Defense Solutions, Civil and Health.
Additionally, the Company separately presents the costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate.
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
On January 26, 2018, the Company entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement with Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. ("Jacobs Group"), whereby the Company purchased 100% of Jacobs Group's 41% outstanding membership interest in MSA.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying unaudited condensed financial information has been prepared in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 23, 2018.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2018, the Company established a new CAS structure and revised its disclosure statements accordingly to reflect the related cost accounting practice changes.
Note 2–Accounting Standards 



Accounting Standards Updates Adopted 



ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 ("ASC 606") and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance.
The core principle of ASC 606 is an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time).
ASC 606 provided companies an option of two transition methods, the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application.
The ASU was effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
Effective December 30, 2017 (the beginning of fiscal 2018), the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method.
The guidance was not applied to contracts that were complete at December 30, 2017, and the comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
As a result of the adoption the Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.
The primary impact was on certain units-of-delivery contracts, as the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time when the customer accepted delivery of the product or service.
Under ASC 606, revenues on certain units-of-delivery contracts are now recognized using an over-time model.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company's revenue recognition policy as revenues on substantially all of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time.
In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606.
The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer.
ASU 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedge Activities



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, which simplifies the application of hedge accounting and improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity's risk management activities.
The ASU is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be applied on a modified retrospective basis.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-12 using the modified retrospective method during the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and recorded a $3 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit for the cumulative ineffectiveness gains related to the cash flow hedges.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2018-02 during the quarter ended March 30, 2018 (applied in the period of adoption), and recorded a $6 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit to reflect the changes in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate as a result of the Tax Act.
The cumulative effect of the changes made to the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet for the adoptions of the ASUs above was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Accounting Standards Updates Issued But Not Yet Adopted 



ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-10, Leases (Topic 842) 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-11 "Targeted Improvements", to add an additional and optional transition method to adopt the new leases standard by allowing recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The effective date and transition requirements will be the same as ASU 2016-02.
The Company plans to adopt the new lease accounting standards in fiscal 2019 using the proposed optional transition method and is currently in the process of reviewing lease and other service based contracts, implementing a new lease accounting and administration software solution, establishing new processes and internal controls.
The potential impact on the consolidated financial statements will largely be based on the present value of future minimum lease payments, the amount of which will depend upon the population of leases in effect at the date of adoption.
8

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 3–Significant Accounting Policies 



Revenue Recognition



The Company's revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
The Company performs under various types of contracts, which include firm-fixed-price ("FFP"), time-and-materials ("T&M"), fixed-price-level-of-effort ("FP-LOE"), cost-plus-fixed-fee, cost-plus-award-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee and fixed-price-incentive-fee ("FP-IF") contracts.
In addition, the Company assesses contract modifications to determine whether changes to existing contracts should be accounted for as part of the original contract or as a separate contract.
Contract modifications for the Company generally relate to changes in contract specifications and requirements and do not add distinct services, and therefore are accounted for as part of the original contract.
If contract modifications add distinct goods or services and increase the contract value by an amount that reflects the standalone selling price, those modifications are accounted for as separate contracts.
Most of the Company's contracts are comprised of multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services.
The Company generally separates multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
The Company's contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
The Company accounts for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
The Company excludes any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
Certain of the Company's cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price.
The Company allocates the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The standalone selling price of the Company's performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR.
Substantially all of the Company's contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.
9

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The Company recognizes revenue on its service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the Company performs the promised services.
Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred.
On FFP contracts, revenue recognized over time generally uses a method that measures the extent of progress towards completion of a performance obligation, principally using a cost-input method (referred to as the cost-to-cost method).
Under the cost-to-cost method, revenue is recognized based on the proportion of total costs incurred to estimated total costs-at-completion ("EAC").
In addition, the Company includes in an EAC of a performance obligation future losses estimated to be incurred on onerous contracts, as and when known.
On certain other contracts, principally T&M, FP-LOE, and cost-plus, revenue is recognized using the right-to-invoice practical expedient as the Company is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer.
Additionally, on maintenance (generally FFP) performance obligations, revenue is recognized over time using a straight-line method as the control of the services is provided to the customer evenly over the period of performance.
In such cases, the Company recognizes revenue on a net basis.
The Company does not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA") (see "Note 20–Contingencies").
Changes in estimates on contracts for the periods presented were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The impact on diluted EPS attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $18 million and $84 million, respectively.
10

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Cash and Cash Equivalents



The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds and bank deposits, with original maturity of three months or less.
At September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the Company included $46 million and $169 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
Receivables



The Company's receivables include amounts billed and currently due from customers, amounts billable where the right to consideration is unconditional and amounts unbilled.
Unbilled amounts also include rate variances that are billable upon negotiation of final indirect rates with the DCAA.
FFP contracts are billed either based on milestones, which are the achievement of specific events as defined in the contract, or based on progress payments, which are interim payments up to a designated amount of costs incurred as work progresses.
On certain contracts, the customer withholds a certain percentage of the contract price (retainage).
These withheld amounts are included within the Company's unbilled receivables and are billed upon contract completion or the occurrence of a specified event, and when negotiation of final indirect rates with the U.S. government is complete.
Based on the Company's historical experience, the write-offs of retention balances have not been significant.
When events or conditions indicate that amounts outstanding from customers may become uncollectible, an allowance is estimated and recorded.
Note 4–Revenues 



Dual Reporting



The effects to the condensed consolidated financial statements at and as of September 28, 2018, as a result of applying ASC 606, rather than previous GAAP ("ASC 605"), were the following:



Balance Sheet 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Income Statement



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The changes reflected above were primarily due to the Company's units-of-delivery contracts, which were recognized at a point in time under ASC 605 and are recognized using an over-time model under ASC 606.
Remaining Performance Obligations



Remaining performance obligations represent the expected value of exercised contracts, both funded and unfunded, less revenue recognized to date.
As of September 28, 2018, the Company had $10.8 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $2.4 billion, $5.2 billion and $3.2 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 and thereafter, respectively.
Disaggregation of Revenues



The Company disaggregates revenues by customer-type, contract-type and geographic location for each of its reportable segments.
Disaggregated revenues by customer-type were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Includes non-DoD federal government agencies, state and local government agencies.
The majority of the Company's revenues is generated from U.S. government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to other contractors.
Government spending levels for the DoD may be impacted by spending priorities as a result of competing demands for federal funds.
13

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 5–Contract Assets and Liabilities 



The Company’s performance obligations are satisfied either over time as work progresses or at a point in time.
Fixed-price contracts are typically billed to the customer using milestone payments while cost-reimbursable and T&M contracts are typically billed to the customer on a monthly or bi-weekly basis as indicated by the negotiated billing terms and conditions of the contract.
As a result, for each of the company’s contracts, the timing of revenue recognition, customer billings and cash collections results in a net contract asset or liability at the end of each reporting period.
Contract assets include unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
Contract assets also include transition costs and project assets.
Project assets represent assets that are specific to contracts.
(2) Balances exclude $506 million and $234 million determined to be billable at September 28, 2018, and December 30, 2017, respectively.
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to timing of advance payments from customers partially offset by revenue recognized during the period.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $37 million and $164 million, respectively, relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company recognized $43 million and $83 million of amortization, respectively, related to its transition costs and project assets.
The Company did not recognize any impairment losses on contract assets for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018.
Note 6–Acquisitions 



On August 16, 2016, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leidos Holdings, Inc. merged with the IS&GS Business in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the "Transactions").
The acquired IS&GS Business was renamed Leidos Innovations Corporation.
14

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



On January 10, 2018, the final amount of the net working capital of the IS&GS Business was determined through a binding arbitration proceeding in accordance with the Separation Agreement with Lockheed Martin.
On January 18, 2018, the final working capital amount of $105 million was paid to Lockheed Martin, of which $24 million and $81 million was presented as cash flows from operating and investing activities, respectively, in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
During the quarter ended June 29, 2018, a tax indemnification liability of $23 million was paid to Lockheed Martin in accordance with the Tax Matters Agreement, which was presented as cash flows from financing activities in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
Note 7–Divestitures



Commercial Cybersecurity Business



On June 5, 2018, the Company entered into a Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement to sell the Company's commercial cybersecurity business, included within the Company's Civil segment, in order to focus on providing solutions, including cybersecurity, to the Company's core markets of governments and highly regulated industries.
The sale is expected to be completed during fiscal 2018 and is not expected to result in a loss.
The Company has presented the associated assets and liabilities of the business as held for sale in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 28, 2018.
15

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Plainfield Renewable Energy Holdings LLC



On July 24, 2015, the Company completed the sale of its equity interest in Plainfield Renewable Energy Holdings LLC ("Plainfield") for an aggregate consideration of $102 million, subject to certain adjustments and contingent earn-out payments.
The consideration received by the Company at closing consisted of a cash payment of $29 million and a secured promissory note for $73 million, net of discount (the "Note").
During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, the Company collected $6 million of principal and interest on the Note.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, Plainfield exercised the first of three one-year term extension options available under the original credit agreement, thereby extending the maturity date of the Note to July 24, 2018.
Concurrent with this extension, the interest rate on the Note increased from 6% to 8%.
Also, during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an amendment to the Note allowing Plainfield to defer up to $4 million of the interest and principal payments due in July 2017 and January 2018 until July 2018.
In consideration of this deferment, Leidos received certain concessions and releases from obligations under the original transaction documents.
In January 2018, the Company entered into negotiations with the equity owners of Plainfield regarding the Plainfield Recapitalization Plan ("Plan").
The net realizable value of the Note at December 29, 2017, was estimated to be approximately $40 million, compared to its carrying value of $73 million, including accrued interest.
As a result, the Company recorded a $33 million impairment of its Note during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, which was presented within "Other income, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of income.
On July 12, 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an additional amendment to the Note, allowing Plainfield to defer the maturity of the Note until the earlier of August 24, 2018, or the date Plainfield successfully closed on a refinancing agreement with a third party.
Under the terms of the agreement, if Plainfield successfully refinanced the Note prior to August 24, 2018, Leidos would allow Plainfield to settle the Note in full for $40 million plus 50% of additional net proceeds obtained by Plainfield.
On August 23, 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an agreement with respect to the final payoff of the Note.
As a result, the Company received proceeds of $40 million in full satisfaction of Plainfield’s obligations under the Note.
The restructuring expenses related to this program were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 28, 2018, Leidos has recognized a total of $55 million of expense in connection with these restructuring activities.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the beginning of the fourth quarter and during interim periods whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
There were no goodwill impairments during the nine months ended September 28, 2018, and September 29, 2017.
Note 10–Intangible Assets 



Intangible assets consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



17

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Amortization expense was $50 million and $151 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $76 million and $212 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
Program and contract intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows.
Customer relationships and backlog intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated annual amortization expense as of September 28, 2018, was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment 



Property, plant and equipment, net consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Depreciation expense was $14 million and $42 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $16 million and $42 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
The sale is expected to be completed during fiscal 2018 at which time the leaseback term will begin.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2020.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that the carrying amount of a real estate property may not be recoverable and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $7 million, which was recorded within Corporate.
18

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 12–Fair Value Measurements 



The accounting standard for fair value measurements establishes a three-level fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1); inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that are observable either directly or indirectly or quoted prices that are not active (Level 2); and unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data (e.g., discounted cash flow and other similar pricing models), which requires the Company to develop its own assumptions (Level 3).
The accounting guidance for fair value measurements requires that the Company maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in determining fair value.
The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities.
The Company's financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.5 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments").
The fair value of the fair value interest rate swaps and cash flow interest rate swaps is determined based on observed values for underlying interest rates on the LIBOR yield curve and the underlying interest rate, respectively (Level 2 inputs).
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's notes receivable of $24 million and $63 million as of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, respectively, approximates fair value as the stated interest rates within the agreements are consistent with the current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
As of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the fair value of debt was $3.1 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, and the carrying amount was $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively (see "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
At March 30, 2018, the Company had a real estate property measured at fair value (Level 2), which resulted in an impairment charge of $7 million (see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at September 28, 2018.
Note 13–Derivative Instruments 



The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
For fixed rate borrowings, the Company uses variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings.
These swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
19

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The fair value of the Company's interest rate swaps was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The cash flows associated with the interest rate swaps are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Fair Value Hedge



The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the "Notes").
The objective of these instruments is to hedge the Notes against changes in fair value due to the variability in the six-month LIBOR rate (the benchmark interest rate).
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness.
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date.
The following amounts were recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheets related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash Flow Hedges 



The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of a portion of its variable rate senior secured term loans (the "Variable Rate Loans").
The objective of these instruments is to reduce variability in the forecasted interest payments of the Company's Variable Rate Loans, which are based on the LIBOR rate.
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive monthly variable interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate.
In February 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of an additional $250 million of its Variable Rate Loans.
The interest rate swap agreements on $1.1 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans had a maturity date of December 2021 and a fixed interest rate of 1.08%.
The interest rate swap agreements on $300 million and $250 million of the Company's Variable Rate Loans both had a maturity date of August 2022 and fixed interest rates of 1.66% and 2.59%, respectively.
20

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



In September 2018, the Company terminated its existing interest rate swaps.
Additionally, in September 2018, the Company entered into new interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of $1.5 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans.
These interest rate swap agreements have a maturity date of August 2025 and a fixed interest rate of 3.00%.
The interest rate swap transactions were accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The gain/loss on the swap is reported as a component of other comprehensive income/loss and is reclassified into earnings when the interest payments on the underlying hedged items impact earnings.
A qualitative assessment of hedge effectiveness is performed on a quarterly basis, unless facts and circumstances indicate the hedge may no longer be highly effective.
21

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 14–Debt 



The Company's debt consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) The carrying amounts of the senior secured term loans and notes and unsecured notes as of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, include the remaining principal outstanding of $3,073 million and $3,129 million, respectively, less total unamortized debt discounts and deferred debt issuances costs of $43 million and $45 million, respectively, less $8 million related to the fair value interest rate swaps (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments") as of September 28, 2018.
In August 2018, Leidos amended its senior secured term loans and revolving credit facility agreements.
These amendments modified the margin range for the revolving credit facility and Term Loan A loans and extended their maturity dates by one year to August 2023.
The amendments also extended the maturity date of Term Loan B by two years to August 2025 and delayed the scheduled increase in quarterly principal payments for Term Loan A by one year to March 2021.
Additionally, the Senior Secured Leverage ratio calculation was amended and now excludes the lesser of $350 million and the Company's unrestricted cash and cash equivalents.
In March 2018, Leidos amended the terms of its senior secured $1.1 billion Term Loan B.
As a result, the margin on Term Loan B was reduced by 25 basis points to 1.75%.
The repricing of the term loan became effective March 15, 2018.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.25% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis.
At September 28, 2018, the current margin on Term Loan A was 1.50%.
The Company made required quarterly principal payments on its senior secured term loans of $15 million and $46 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $20 million and $61 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in the Company's credit agreements.
In addition to the required payments on its term loans, the Company prepaid $105 million and $130 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio.
The maturity date of this credit facility is August 2023.
As of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.
22

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



In connection with the August 2018 amendments, the Company incurred $5 million of debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and revolving credit facility, which were recorded as an offset against the carrying value of debt and capitalized within "Other assets", respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Amortization of the debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility was $2 million and $8 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $3 million and $10 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 28, 2018.
Note 15–Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 



Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Reclassifications from unrecognized gain on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
Note 16–Earnings Per Share ("EPS")



The following table provides a reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute basic and diluted EPS for the periods presented: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company made open market repurchases of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $62 million and $162 million, respectively.
All shares repurchased were immediately retired.
23

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 17–Supplementary Cash Flow Information and Restricted Cash 



Supplementary cash flow information, and non-cash activities, for the periods presented was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following is a reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents, as reported within the condensed consolidated balance sheets, to the total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, as reported within the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The restricted cash is recorded within "Inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The restricted cash primarily comprises of advances from customers that are restricted as to use for certain expenditures related to that customer's contract.
The Company expects to finalize its assessment of all provisional amounts within the allowed one-year measurement period.
During the quarter ended September 28, 2018, the Company increased its estimate of the deemed repatriation tax and decreased its estimate of the limitation on the deductibility of certain executive compensation, resulting in a net increase to income tax expense of $4 million.
For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, the effective tax rate was 13.5% compared to 31.9% for the quarter ended September 29, 2017.
For the nine months ended September 28, 2018, the effective tax rate was 14.3% compared to 30.1% for the nine months ended September 29, 2017.
The segment information for the periods presented was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The financial performance measures used to evaluate segment performance are revenues and operating income.
As such, the company does not separately disclose depreciation expense on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM.
Note 20–Contingencies 



Legal Proceedings 



MSA Joint Venture



On November 10, 2015, MSA received a final decision by the Department of Energy ("DoE") contracting officer for the Mission Support Contract concluding that certain payments to MSA by the DoE for the performance of IT services by Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. ("LMSI") under a subcontract to MSA constituted alleged affiliate fees in violation of the FAR.
Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology LLC (now known as Leidos Integrated Technology LLC) is a member entity of MSA.
Subsequent to the contracting officer's final decision, MSA, LMSI, and Lockheed Martin Corporation received notice from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Washington that the U.S. government had initiated a False Claims Act investigation into the facts surrounding this dispute, and each of MSA, LMSI and Lockheed Martin Corporation has produced information in response to Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office.
In addition, the U.S. Attorney's office has advised that a parallel criminal investigation is open, although no subjects or targets of the investigation have been identified.
25

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Since this issue first was raised by the DoE, MSA has asserted that the IT services performed by LMSI under a fixed-price/fixed-unit rate subcontract approved by the DoE meet the definition of a "commercial item" under the FAR and any profits earned on that subcontract are permissible.
MSA filed an appeal of the contracting officer's decision with the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals and that appeal is pending, but has been stayed pending resolution of the False Claims Act investigation.
Subsequent to the filing of MSA's appeal, the contracting officer demanded that MSA reimburse the DoE in the amount of $64 million, which was his estimate of the profits earned during the period from 2010 to 2014 by LMSI.
The DoE has deferred collection of $32 million of that demand, pending resolution of the appeal and without prejudice to MSA's position that it is not liable for any of the DOE's $64 million reimbursement claim.
MSA and the other member of MSA have indicated that they believe if MSA incurs a liability in this matter, then Leidos Integrated Technology, LLC is responsible to MSA for the loss.
At September 28, 2018, the Company had a liability of $39 million and an indemnification asset of $1 million recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Securities Litigation



Between February and April 2012, alleged stockholders filed three putative securities class actions against the Company and several former executives relating to the Company's contract to develop and implement an automated time and attendance and workforce management system for certain agencies of the City of New York ("CityTime").
One case was withdrawn and two cases were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York in In Re: SAIC, Inc. Securities Litigation.
The District Court dismissed the plaintiffs' claims with prejudice and without leave to replead.
The plaintiffs then appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which issued an opinion affirming in part, and vacating in part, the District Court's ruling.
The Company filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in the U.S. Supreme Court, which was granted on March 27, 2017.
The District Court granted the Company's request to stay all proceedings, including discovery, pending the outcome at the Supreme Court.
In September 2017, the parties engaged in mediation resulting in an agreement to settle all remaining claims for an immaterial amount to be paid by the Company.
The amounts payable by the Company are covered by an insurance policy.
The terms of the proposed settlement remain subject to court approval.
Greek Government Contract 



In 2003, the Company entered into an FFP contract with the Hellenic Republic of Greece to provide a Command, Control, Communications, Coordination and Integration System.
The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and has not paid the Company's final invoice.
In 2013, the Company received an arbitral award by the International Chamber of Commerce for €39 million, which has not been satisfied.
In January 2017, the U.S. District Court granted an order to enforce the arbitration award and entered judgment in the Company's favor, converting the award to U.S. dollars.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit subsequently ruled that the district court judgment should instead reflect the currency in which it was originally awarded.
Separately, the Greek government has sought to annul the award through separate litigation in the Greek courts, and such a challenge is currently pending.
Arbitration Proceeding



The Company is a party to an arbitration proceeding that is expected to commence in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 involving a claim by Lockheed Martin for indemnification for $56 million in taxes attributable to deferred revenue recognized as a result of the Transactions.
Based on the arguments advanced to date, the Company believes that the claim appears to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself in arbitration.
We expect a final decision by the arbitration panel to be issued during the first half of fiscal 2019.
Other Contingencies



VirnetX, Inc. 



On September 29, 2017, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment in the VirnetX v. Apple case referred to as the Apple I case.
The court subsequently awarded an additional sum of over $96 million for costs, attorneys' fees, and interest, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple I case to over $439 million.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
On April 11, 2018, in a second phase of the Apple II trial, the jury found Apple's infringement to be willful.
On August 30, 2018, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment and rulings on post-trial motions in the Apple II case.
The court also denied Apple’s motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial.
An additional sum of over $93 million for costs and pre-judgment interest was subsequently agreed upon pursuant to a court order, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple II case to over $595 million.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple II case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
Under its agreements with VirnetX, the Company would receive 25% of the proceeds obtained by VirnetX after reduction for attorneys' fees and costs.
However, the verdicts in these cases remain subject to appeal.
Thus, no assurances can be given when or if the Company will receive any proceeds in connection with these jury awards.
In addition, if the Company receives any proceeds, the Company is required to pay a royalty to the customer who paid for the development of the technology.
The Company does not have any assets or liabilities recorded in connection with this matter as of September 28, 2018.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, pursuant to the resolution of certain government accounting matters, including audits by the DCAA, the Company recorded a net reduction of $8 million and $14 million, respectively, to its accrued liabilities.
As of September 28, 2018, the Company believes it has adequately reserved for potential adjustments from audits or reviews of contract costs.
27

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 21–Commitments 



The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $84 million as of September 28, 2018, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $123 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.
The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds have various terms with the majority expiring over the next four fiscal years.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed which will function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
28

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
