Item 1.
Financial Statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
1

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
2

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
3

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
4

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (UNAUDITED) [CONTINUED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
5

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
6

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 1–Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation 



Leidos Holdings, Inc. ("Leidos"), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company whose direct 100%-owned subsidiary and principal operating company is Leidos, Inc. Leidos is a FORTUNE 500® science, engineering and information technology company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets.
Leidos' domestic customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs and many other U.S. government civilian agencies, as well as state and local government agencies.
The Company operates in three reportable segments: Defense Solutions, Civil and Health.
Additionally, the Company separately presents the costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate.
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
On January 26, 2018, the Company entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement with Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. ("Jacobs Group"), whereby the Company purchased 100% of Jacobs Group's 41% outstanding membership interest in MSA.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest ("subsidiaries") and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
Effective December 29, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02 using the modified retrospective approach (see "Note 2–Accounting Standards").
Comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments (see "Note 18–Business Segments").
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
7

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 2–Accounting Standards 



Accounting Standards Updates Adopted



ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-10, ASU 2018-11, ASU 2018-20, and ASU 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842)



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10 "Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases" to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-02, and ASU 2018-11 "Targeted Improvements", to add an additional and optional transition method to adopt the new leases standard by allowing recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The ASU also provided lessors with a practical expedient, by class of underlying asset, to not separate non-lease components from the associated lease components, similar to the expedient provided for lessees.
In December 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-20 "Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors" to add clarity to lessors accounting for sales taxes and other similar taxes collected from lessees, accounting for variable payments for contracts with lease and non-lease components and accounting for certain lessor costs.
In March 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-01 "Codification Improvements" to Leases (Topic 842) to clarify the codification more generally and/or to correct unintended application of guidance.
The effective date and transition requirements of these updates are the same as ASU 2016-02.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing impairment for the ROU assets.
Effective December 29, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 842 using the modified retrospective approach.
Comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
8

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The cumulative effect of the changes made to the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet for the adoption of ASU 2016-02 was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Accounting Standards Updates Issued But Not Yet Adopted



ASU 2016-13, ASU 2018-19, ASU 2019-05, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326)



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which eliminates the requirement that a credit loss on a financial instrument be "probable" prior to recognition.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
A prospective approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date and loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.
Early adoption is permitted.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-19 "Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses" to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-13.
In May 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-05 "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Target Transition Relief" which provided transition relief for entities adopting ASU 2016-13 by allowing the election of the fair value option on certain financial instruments.
The effective date and the transition methodology for the amendments in these updates are the same as in ASU 2016-13.
The Company is evaluating the provisions of ASU 2016-13, in conjunction with ASU 2018-19 and ASU 2019-05, and their impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.
Note 3–Significant Accounting Policies 



Leases 



The Company has facilities and equipment lease arrangements.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
9

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
When the lease does not include an implicit rate, the discount rate used is the Company’s incremental borrowing rate based on information available at the commencement date.
An ROU asset is initially measured by the present value of the remaining lease payments, plus initial direct costs and prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives received before commencement.
The remaining lease cost is allocated over the remaining lease term on a straight-line basis unless another systematic or rational basis is more representative of the pattern in which the underlying asset is expected to be used.
ROU assets are evaluated for impairment in a manner consistent with the treatment of other long-lived assets.
The Company's leases may also include variable lease payments such as an escalation clause based on consumer price index rates, maintenance costs and utilities.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the determination of ROU assets and lease liabilities using the index or rate at the lease commencement date, whereas variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred.
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and instead account for both components as a single lease, combining lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Changes in estimates on contracts were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The impact on diluted earnings per share ("EPS") attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $15 million and $19 million for the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, respectively and $32 million and $66 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
10

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Cash and Cash Equivalents



The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds and bank deposits, with original maturity of three months or less.
At June 28, 2019 and December 28, 2018, the Company included $62 million and $56 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
11

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Lease terms and discount rates related to leases were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other information related to leases was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company's future minimum lease commitments of its finance and operating leases on an undiscounted basis, reconciled to the respective lease liability at June 28, 2019, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
Disclosures related to periods prior to adoption of ASC 842



During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company had $38 million and $80 million of net rental expense, respectively.
12

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Future minimum lease commitments and sublease receipts, under non-cancelable operating leases in effect at December 28, 2018, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 5–Revenues 



Remaining Performance Obligations



Remaining performance obligations represent the expected value of exercised contracts, both funded and unfunded, less revenue recognized to date.
Disaggregation of Revenues



The Company disaggregates revenues by customer-type, contract-type and geographic location for each of its reportable segments.
Prior year amounts have been recast for the contracts that were reassigned between the Defense Solutions and Civil reportable segments (see "Note 18–Business Segments").
Disaggregated revenues by customer-type were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



13

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)  For the six months ended June 28, 2019, the Company reclassified $6 million within the Defense Solutions segment from "Other government agencies" to "DoD and U.S. Intelligence Community" to reflect the change in disaggregation of U.S. government customers in the current period.
(2) Includes federal government agencies other than the DoD and U.S. Intelligence Community, as well as state and local government agencies.
(3) For the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company reclassified $13 million and $25 million, respectively, within the Defense Solutions segment from "Other government agencies" to "DoD and U.S. Intelligence Community" to reflect the change in disaggregation of U.S. government customers in the current period.
The majority of the Company's revenues are generated from U.S. government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to other contractors.
For the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, revenues include $12 million and $30 million recognized under ASC 842, respectively.
Note 6–Contract Assets and Liabilities 



The Company’s performance obligations are satisfied either over time as work progresses or at a point in time.
FFP contracts are typically billed to the customer using milestone payments while cost-reimbursable and T&M contracts are typically billed to the customer on a monthly or bi-weekly basis as indicated by the negotiated billing terms and conditions of the contract.
Contract assets consist of unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
The components of contract assets and contract liabilities consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Balances exclude $467 million and $381 million determined to be billable at June 28, 2019, and December 28, 2018, respectively.
15

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The decrease in unbilled receivables was primarily due to the timing of revenue recognized on certain contracts.
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to the timing of advance payments from customers offset by revenue recognized during the period.
Revenue recognized for the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019 of $136 million and $249 million, respectively, was included as a contract liability at December 28, 2018.
Revenue recognized for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018 of $72 million and $127 million, respectively, was included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017 (date of adoption).
Note 7–Divestitures



On February 20, 2019, the Company's Civil segment disposed of its commercial cybersecurity business in order to focus on providing solutions, including cybersecurity, to the Company's core markets of governments and highly regulated industries.
In February 2019, the Company received initial proceeds of $171 million.
During the quarter ended June 28, 2019, working capital adjustments were finalized, resulting in a final sales price of $166 million.
The Company recorded a pre-tax gain on sale of $87 million, net of assets divested of $69 million and $10 million in transaction related costs.
16

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment, which resulted in the identification of new operating segments and reporting units within Defense Solutions.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between Civil and Defense solutions reportable segments (see "Note 18–Business Segments").
Consequently, the carrying amount of goodwill was re-allocated among the reporting units for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment.
In conjunction with the changes mentioned above, the Company evaluated goodwill for impairment using a quantitative step one analysis, both before and after the changes were made, and determined that goodwill was not impaired.
There were no goodwill impairments during the six months ended June 28, 2019 and June 29, 2018.
During the quarter ended March 29, 2019, the Company recorded an immaterial correction of $3 million with respect to the fair value of assets acquired from Lockheed Martin's Information Systems & Global Solutions business ("the Transactions").
Note 9–Intangible Assets 



Intangible assets consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense was $43 million and $86 million, for the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, respectively, and $51 million and $101 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
Program and contract intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows.
Customer relationships are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The estimated annual amortization expense as of June 28, 2019, was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



17

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 10–Property, Plant and Equipment 



Property, plant and equipment, net consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Depreciation expense was $14 million and $29 million for the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, respectively, and $15 million and $28 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
Sale and Leaseback Agreements



Gaithersburg, MD Property 



On December 31, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to its land and building in Gaithersburg, MD.
The Company received proceeds of $31 million, net of selling costs for the property, which had a carrying value of $31 million.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2020.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, an impairment charge of $7 million associated with this property was recorded within Corporate.
San Diego, CA Properties



On December 28, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to two buildings and the adjacent land in San Diego, CA for consideration of $79 million, net of selling costs.
The carrying value of the land and buildings was $14 million.
The Company received cash proceeds of $14 million upon closing in December 2018, and received the remaining $65 million cash proceeds in January 2019.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2036.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 842, the consideration of $79 million was recorded as a financing transaction.
Under ASC 842, the transaction qualified as a sale-leaseback and consequently the debt of $79 million and the carrying value of the property of $14 million, net of the related tax impact of $17 million, were reclassified into retained earnings as a cumulative effect adjustment.
The proceeds received in fiscal 2019 were recorded as investing activities on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
The accounting guidance for fair value measurements requires that the Company maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in determining fair value.
The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities.
18

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The Company's financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.5 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 12–Derivative Instruments").
The fair value of the fair value interest rate swaps and cash flow interest rate swaps is determined based on observed values for underlying interest rates on the LIBOR yield curve and the underlying interest rate, respectively (Level 2 inputs).
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's note receivable of $25 million and $24 million as of June 28, 2019, and December 28, 2018, respectively, approximates fair value as the stated interest rate within the agreement is consistent with current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
As of June 28, 2019, and December 28, 2018, the fair value of debt was $3.1 billion and the carrying amount was $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively (see "Note 13–Debt").
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
During the six months ended June 28, 2019, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
Note 12–Derivative Instruments 



The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
For fixed rate borrowings, the Company uses variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings.
These swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
The fair value of the Company's interest rate swaps was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The cash flows associated with the interest rate swaps are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Fair Value Hedge



The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the "Notes").
The objective of these instruments is to hedge the Notes against changes in fair value due to the variability in the six-month LIBOR rate (the benchmark interest rate).
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness.
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 13–Debt").
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date.
The following amounts were recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheets related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash Flow Hedges 



The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of a portion of its variable rate senior secured term loans (the "Variable Rate Loans").
The objective of these instruments is to reduce variability in the forecasted interest payments of the Company's Variable Rate Loans, which are based on the LIBOR rate.
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive monthly variable interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate.
In February 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of an additional $250 million of its Variable Rate Loans.
The interest rate swap agreements on $1.1 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans had a maturity date of December 2021 and a fixed interest rate of 1.08%.
The interest rate swap agreements on $300 million and $250 million of the Company's Variable Rate Loans both had a maturity date of August 2022 and fixed interest rates of 1.66% and 2.59%, respectively.
In September 2018, the Company terminated its existing interest rate swaps.
Additionally, in September 2018, the Company entered into new interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of $1.5 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans.
These interest rate swap agreements have a maturity date of August 2025 and a fixed interest rate of 3.00%.
The interest rate swap transactions were accounted for as cash flow hedges.
A qualitative assessment of hedge effectiveness is performed on a quarterly basis, unless facts and circumstances indicate the hedge may no longer be highly effective.
Note 13–Debt 



The Company's debt consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) The carrying amounts of the senior secured term loans and notes and unsecured notes as of June 28, 2019, and December 28, 2018, include the remaining principal outstanding of $3,032 million and $3,073 million, respectively, less total unamortized debt discounts and deferred debt issuances costs of $40 million and $43 million, respectively, and a $4 million asset and $3 million liability related to the fair value interest rate swaps (see "Note 12–Derivative Instruments"), respectively.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.25% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis.
At June 28, 2019, the current margin on Term Loan A was 1.50% and the margin on Term Loan B was 1.75%.
21

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The Company made principal payments on its long-term debt of $17 million and $48 million during the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, respectively, and $27 million and $44 million during the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
This activity included required quarterly principal payments on its senior secured term loans of $14 million and $41 million during the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, respectively, and $16 million and $31 million during the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in the Company's credit agreements.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio.
The maturity date of this credit facility is August 2023.
As of June 28, 2019, and December 28, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.
Amortization of the debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility was $2 million and $5 million for the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, respectively, and $3 million and $6 million for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, respectively.
The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of June 28, 2019.
Note 14–Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 



Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Reclassifications from unrecognized gain (loss) on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
22

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 15–Earnings Per Share ("EPS")



The following table provides a reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute basic and diluted EPS for the periods presented: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Anti-dilutive stock-based awards are excluded from the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute diluted EPS.
The total outstanding stock options and vesting stock awards that were anti-dilutive was 1 million for both the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2019, and 1 million for both the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018.
On February 21, 2019, the Company entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase ("ASR") agreement with a financial institution to repurchase shares of its outstanding common stock.
During the quarter ended March 29, 2019, the Company paid $200 million to the financial institution and received an initial delivery of 2.6 million shares.
In April 2019, the Company received the final delivery of 0.6 million shares related to the ASR agreement.
The total number of shares that the Company received under the ASR agreement was based on the volume-weighted-average-price of $63.52 per share for the period February 21, 2019 to April 29, 2019.
All shares delivered were immediately retired.
During the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2018, the Company made open market repurchases of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $90 million and $100 million, respectively.
All shares repurchased were immediately retired.
Note 16–Supplementary Cash Flow Information and Restricted Cash 



Supplementary cash flow information, and non-cash activities, for the periods presented was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See "Note 4–Leases" for additional supplementary cash flow information related to the Company's leases.
The following is a reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents, as reported within the condensed consolidated balance sheets, to the total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, as reported within the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



23

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



The restricted cash is recorded within "Other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The restricted cash is primarily comprised of advances from customers that are restricted as to use for certain expenditures related to that customer's contract.
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to tax benefits recognized during the quarter ended June 29, 2018, related to the anticipated sale of the Company's commercial cybersecurity business.
For the six months ended June 28, 2019, the effective tax rate was 23.1% compared to 14.8% for the six months ended June 29, 2018.
The Company defines its reportable segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), currently its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, manages the operations of the Company for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers it serves.
This resulted in the identification of new operating segments within Defense Solutions.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments.
As such, the company does not separately disclose depreciation expense on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM.
24

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Note 19–Contingencies 



Legal Proceedings 



MSA Joint Venture



On November 10, 2015, MSA received a final decision by the Department of Energy ("DoE") contracting officer for the Mission Support Contract concluding that certain payments to MSA by the DoE for the performance of IT services by Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. ("LMSI") under a subcontract to MSA constituted alleged affiliate fees in violation of Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR").
Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology LLC (now known as Leidos Integrated Technology LLC) is a member entity of MSA.
Subsequent to the contracting officer's final decision, MSA, LMSI, and Lockheed Martin Corporation received notice from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Washington that the U.S. government had initiated a False Claims Act investigation into the facts surrounding this dispute, and each of MSA, LMSI and Lockheed Martin Corporation have produced information in response to Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office.
On February 8, 2019, the U.S. Attorney's office filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington against MSA, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. and a Lockheed Martin employee.
The U.S. Attorney's office had previously advised that a parallel criminal investigation was open, although no subjects or targets of the investigation had been identified.
The U.S. Attorney's office has informed MSA that it has closed the criminal investigation.
Since this issue first was raised by the DoE, MSA has asserted that the IT services performed by LMSI under a fixed-price/fixed-unit rate subcontract approved by the DoE meet the definition of a "commercial item" under the FAR and any profits earned on that subcontract are permissible.
MSA filed an appeal of the contracting officer's decision with the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, which was stayed pending resolution of the False Claims Act matter.
Subsequent to the filing of MSA's appeal, the contracting officer demanded that MSA reimburse the DoE in the amount of $64 million, which was his estimate of the profits earned during the period from 2010 to 2014 by LMSI.
The DoE has deferred collection of $32 million of that demand, pending resolution of the appeal and without prejudice to MSA's position that it is not liable for any of the DOE's $64 million reimbursement claim.
The Company has agreed to indemnify Jacobs Group and Centerra Group, LLC for any liability MSA incurs in this matter.
At June 28, 2019, the Company had a liability of $39 million recorded in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Securities Litigation



Between February and April 2012, alleged stockholders filed three putative securities class actions against the Company and several former executives relating to the Company's contract to develop and implement an automated time and attendance and workforce management system for certain agencies of the City of New York ("CityTime").
The District Court dismissed the plaintiffs' claims with prejudice and without leave to replead.
The plaintiffs then appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which issued an opinion affirming in part, and vacating in part, the District Court's ruling.
The Company filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in the U.S. Supreme Court, which was granted on March 27, 2017.
The District Court granted the Company's request to stay all proceedings, including discovery, pending the outcome at the Supreme Court.
In September 2017, the parties engaged in mediation resulting in an agreement to settle all remaining claims for an immaterial amount to be paid by the Company.
The amounts payable by the Company are covered by an insurance policy.
The terms of the proposed settlement remain subject to court approval.
25

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



Greek Government Contract 



In 2003, the Company entered into an FFP contract with the Hellenic Republic of Greece to provide a Command, Control, Communications, Coordination and Integration System.
The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and has not paid the Company's final invoice.
In 2013, the Company received an arbitral award by the International Chamber of Commerce for €39 million, which has not been satisfied.
In January 2017, the U.S. District Court granted an order to enforce the arbitration award and entered judgment in the Company's favor.
The Company has commenced enforcement proceedings against the Greek government in several jurisdictions.
Separately, the Greek government’s effort to annul the award in the Greek courts has been rejected by a final ruling of the Greek Supreme Court.
Based on the difficulties encountered to date in enforcing the award, the Company is unable to reliably estimate the ultimate outcome.
Arbitration Proceeding



The Company is a party to an arbitration proceeding involving a claim by Lockheed Martin for indemnification for $56 million in taxes attributable to deferred revenue recognized as a result of the Transactions.
Other Contingencies



VirnetX, Inc. 



On September 29, 2017, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment in the VirnetX v. Apple case referred to as the Apple I case.
The court subsequently awarded an additional sum of over $96 million for costs, attorneys' fees, and interest, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple I case to over $439 million.
Apple appealed the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and on January 15, 2019, the court affirmed the $439 million judgment.
It is expected that Apple will appeal this decision.
On April 11, 2018, in a second phase of the Apple II trial, the jury found Apple's infringement to be willful.
On August 30, 2018, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment and rulings on post-trial motions in the Apple II case.
The court also denied Apple’s motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial.
An additional sum of over $93 million for costs and pre-judgment interest was subsequently agreed upon pursuant to a court order, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple II case to over $595 million.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple II case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
Under its agreements with VirnetX, the Company would receive 25% of the proceeds obtained by VirnetX after reduction for attorneys' fees and costs.
However, the verdicts in these cases remain subject to appeal.
Thus, no assurances can be given when or if the Company will receive any proceeds in connection with these jury awards.
In February 2019, the Company executed an external restructuring advance agreement with the DoD in accordance with provisions of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, which allows the Company to recover certain specified external restructuring costs.
Note 20–Commitments 



The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $63 million as of June 28, 2019, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with a notional amount of $52 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.
The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds have various terms with the majority expiring over the remainder of the current fiscal year and the next two fiscal years.
Reston, VA Lease Agreement



On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, VA (see "Note 4–Leases").
Gaithersburg, MD Lease Agreement



On December 31, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to its land and building in Gaithersburg, MD.
(see "Note 10–Property, Plant and Equipment").
San Diego, CA Lease Agreement



On December 28, 2018, the Company closed the sales and leaseback agreement relating to two buildings and the adjacent land in San Diego, CA (see "Note 10–Property, Plant and Equipment").
Note 21–Subsequent Events 



On July 29, 2019, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared an increase in the quarterly cash dividend on common stock to $0.34 per share, up from the current $0.32 per share, effective in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
27

LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
