ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) 



LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(In thousands, except per share amounts)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
4

LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(In thousands)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
5

LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In thousands, except per share amounts)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
6

LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(In thousands)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
7

LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(In thousands)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
8

LOGITECH INTERNATIONAL S.A.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(unaudited)



 Note 1 — The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates



The Company 



Logitech International S.A, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, ("Logitech" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets products that help connect people to digital and cloud experiences.
More than 35 years ago, Logitech created products to improve experiences around the personal PC platform, and today it is a multi-brand, multi-category company designing products that enable better experiences consuming, sharing and creating any digital content such as music, gaming, video and computing, whether it is on a computer, mobile device or in the cloud.
The Company sells its products to a broad network of domestic and international customers, including direct sales to retailers and e-tailers and indirect sales through distributors.
Logitech was founded in Switzerland in 1981 and Logitech International S.A. has been the parent holding company of Logitech since 1988.
Logitech International S.A. is a Swiss holding company with its registered office in Apples, Switzerland and headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland, which conducts its business through subsidiaries in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") and Asia Pacific.
Shares of Logitech International S.A. are listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange under the trading symbol LOGN and the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the trading symbol LOGI.
Business Acquisition



In August 2018, the Company acquired Blue Microphones Holding Corporation.
See "Note 2 - Business Acquisition" for more information.
Basis of Presentation



The condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Logitech and its subsidiaries.
All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The condensed consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and therefore do not include all the information required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
They should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on May 21, 2018.
In the opinion of management, these condensed consolidated financial statements include all adjustments, consisting of only normal and recurring adjustments, necessary and in all material aspects, for a fair statement of the results of operations, comprehensive income, financial position, cash flows and changes in shareholders' equity for the periods presented.
Operating results for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, or any future periods.
Reclassification 



Certain amounts from the comparative period in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the condensed consolidated financial statement presentation as of and for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
9

Changes in Significant Accounting Policies



Other than the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and discussed below under Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, there have been no changes in the Company’s significant accounting policies during the six months ended September 30, 2018 compared with the significant accounting policies described in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
Use of Estimates



The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable.
Significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the fair value of goodwill, intangible assets acquired from business acquisitions, warranty liabilities, accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing, and pricing programs ("Customer Programs") and related breakage when appropriate, accrued revenue reserve from returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, contingent consideration from business acquisitions and periodical reassessment of its fair value, share-based compensation expense, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances for deferred tax assets.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") No.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)" ("ASU 2014-09" or “Topic 606”) which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements under ASC 605 (“Topic 605”), Revenue Recognition.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single, comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance.
Under the new guidance, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new standard requires reporting companies to disclose the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
On April 1, 2018, the Company adopted the new standard and all related amendments using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of April 1, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning after April 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with historic accounting standards under Topic 605.
As result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded: a) a reduction to retained earnings as of April 1, 2018; and b) reclassifications of certain allowances for sales returns and certain other Customer Programs from accounts receivable, net to accrued and other current liabilities and other current assets.
The cumulative effect of the changes to the condensed consolidated balance sheet from the adoption of Topic 606 was as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Reduction to Retained Earnings as of April 1, 2018



•Under Topic 605, accruals for certain Customer Programs were recognized as a reduction of revenue at the later of when the related revenue is recognized or when the program is offered to the customer.
Under Topic 606, these programs qualify as variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction of the 



10

transaction price at the contract inception based on the expected value method.
The Company is required to estimate the accruals for these programs ahead of commitment date if customary business practice creates an implied expectation that such activities will occur in the future.
•Under Topic 606, variable consideration must be estimated at the outset of the arrangement, subject to the constraint guidance to ensure that a significant revenue reversal will not occur.
As a result, upon adoption of Topic 606, estimated breakage for accruals of certain Customer Programs is recognized sooner as compared to Topic 605.
Balance Sheet Reclassifications



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•Under Topic 605, revenue reserves for certain Customer Programs totaling $76.7 million, which were estimated using portfolio approach based on aggregated customer level, were included within accounts receivable, net as of March 31, 2018.
Subsequent to the adoption of Topic 606, such balances are presented as accrued customer marketing, pricing and incentive programs included in accrued and other current liabilities.
Certain balances of allowances for sales return and accruals for Customer Programs which were accrued based on Customer Program offers made to individual customers, met the right of offset criteria in accordance with ASC 210-20, "Balance Sheet (Topic 210)", and are still included within accounts receivable, net.
The adoption of Topic 606 did not have an impact over the total cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following tables summarize the impacts of adopting Topic 606 on the Company’s condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2018 (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, "Financial Instruments-Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Subtopic 825-10)" ("ASU 2016-01").
ASU 2016-01 requires entities to measure equity instruments at fair value and recognize any changes in fair value within the statement of operations.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-01 effective April 1, 2018 on a prospective basis for its privately held strategic equity securities without readily determinable fair values.
The Company elected the measurement alternative to record these investments at cost and to adjust for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer within the statement of operations.
The adoption of ASU 2016-01 did not have a material impact on the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
11

In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory" ("ASU 2016-16"), which eliminates the deferral of income tax effects of intra-entity asset transfers until the transferred asset is sold to an unrelated party or recovered through use.
However, this standard does not apply to intra-entity transfer of inventory.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2018 on a modified retrospective basis, and the adoption of ASU 2016-16 did not have a material impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash" ("ASU 2016-18"), which requires that a statement of cash flows explains the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2018, utilizing the retrospective transition method to each period presented and the adoption of ASU 2016-18 did not have an impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements as the Company did not have restricted cash for either periods presented.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, "Business Combination (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business" ("ASU 2017-01"), which changes the definition of a business to assist with evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2018, and the adoption of ASU 2017-01 did not have a material impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, "Compensation-Retirement Benefit (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost" ("ASU 2017-07"), which requires that the Company disaggregate the service cost component from the other components of net benefit cost, and also provides guidance on how to present the service cost component and the other components of net benefit cost in the income statement and allow only the service cost component of net benefit cost to be eligible for capitalization.
The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2018 using a retrospective adoption method.
Other than the revised statement of operations presentation for the periods in the current year, the adoption of ASU 2017-07 did not have an impact on the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
The impact to the comparative period was immaterial and therefore the prior period statements of operations was not revised.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, "Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities" ("ASU 2017-12"), which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements and simplifies the application of the hedge accounting guidance.
The Company adopted this standard prospectively on April 1, 2018, and the adoption of ASU 2017-12 did not have a material impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with ASU 2017-12, the Company has started presenting the earnings impact from forward points in cost of goods sold line item, which is used to present the earnings impact of the hedged item.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements to be Adopted



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)" ("ASU 2016-02" or "Topic 842"), which generally requires companies to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities arising from operating and financing leases with terms longer than 12 months in the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 on a modified retrospective basis, which recognizes the cumulative effect of initially applying Topic 842 as an adjustment to retained earnings at the adoption date.
Although the Company expects to record significant amounts of right-of-use assets and liabilities on its condensed consolidated balance sheets, the Company is still evaluating the full impact that ASU 2016-02 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, "Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurements" ("ASU 2018-13"), which aims to improve the overall usefulness of disclosures to financial statement users and reduce unnecessary costs to companies when preparing fair value measurement disclosures.
ASU 2018-13 is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
Retrospective adoption is required, except for certain disclosures which will be required to be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
The Company is evaluating the full effect that ASU 2018-13 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption.
12

In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefits Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans" ("ASU 2018-14"), which aims to improve the overall usefulness of disclosures to financial statement users and reduce unnecessary costs to companies when preparing defined benefit plan disclosures.
ASU 2018-14 is effective for annual periods in fiscal years ending after December 15, 2021.
Retrospective adoption is required and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the full effect that ASU 2018-14 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract" ("ASU 2018-15"), which clarifies that implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements are deferred if they would be capitalized by customers in software licensing arrangements under the internal-use software guidance.
ASU 2018-15 is effective for annual and interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
Entities have the option to apply the guidance prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption or retrospectively.
The Company is evaluating the full effect that ASU 2018-15 will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements and the timing of adoption.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Revenue Recognition 



Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or service in an amount that reflects the transaction price the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Substantially all revenue recognized by the Company relates to the contracts with customers to sell products that allow people to connect through music, gaming, video, computing, and other digital platforms.
These products are hardware devices, which may include embedded software, and these functions together are considered as one performance obligation.
Hardware devices are generally plug and play, requiring no configuration and little or no installation.
Revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the products is transferred to the customer which generally occurs upon shipment.
The Company’s contracts with its customers generally have a term of no more than one year.
The Company applies the practical expedient of not disclosing the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
The Company also provides post-contract customer support (“PCS”) for products and related software, which includes unspecified software updates and upgrades, bug fixes and maintenance.
The transaction price is allocated to two performance obligations in such contracts, based on a relative standalone selling price.
The transaction price allocated to PCS is recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the estimated term of the support, which is between one to two years, and is not material for the periods presented herein.
Deferred revenue associated with remaining PCS performance obligation is not material as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
The Company normally requires payments from customers within thirty to sixty days from invoice date.
However, terms may vary by customer type, by country and by selling season.
Extended payment terms are sometimes offered to a limited number of customers during the second and third fiscal quarters.
The Company does not modify payment terms on existing receivables.
The Company's contracts with customers typically do not include significant financing components as the period between the satisfaction of performance obligations and timing of payment are generally within one year.
The transaction price received by the Company from sales to its distributors, retail companies ("retailers"), and authorized resellers is calculated as selling price net of variable consideration which may include product returns, price protection, and the Company’s payments for Customer Programs related to current period product revenue.
The estimated impact of these programs is recorded as a reduction of sales or as an operating expense if the Company receives a distinct good or service from the customer and can reasonably estimate the fair value of that good or service received.
Significant management judgment and estimates are used to determine the impact of these programs in any accounting period.
Certain Customer Programs require management to estimate the percentage of those programs which will not be claimed or will not be earned by customers based on historical experience and on the specific terms and conditions of particular programs.
The percentage of these customer programs that will not be claimed or earned is commonly referred to as "breakage".
The Company accounts for breakage as part of variable consideration, subject to constraint, and records the estimated impact in the same 



13

period when revenue is recognized at the expected value considering constraints.
Significant management judgments and estimates are used to determine the breakage of the programs in any accounting period.
The Company enters into cooperative marketing arrangements with many of its customers and with certain indirect partners, allowing customers to receive a credit equal to a set percentage of their purchases of the Company's products, or a fixed dollar credit for various marketing and incentive programs.
The objective of these arrangements is to encourage advertising and promotional events to increase sales of the Company's products.
Customer incentive programs include consumer rebates and performance-based incentives.
Consumer rebates are offered to the Company's customers and indirect partners at the Company's discretion for the primary benefit of end-users.
In addition, the Company offers performance-based incentives to many of its customers and indirect partners based on predetermined performance criteria.
At management's discretion, the Company also offers special pricing discounts to certain customers.
Special pricing discounts are usually offered only for limited time periods or for sales of selected products to specific indirect partners.
Estimates of required accruals for cooperative marketing arrangements and customer incentive programs are determined based on negotiated terms, consideration of historical experience, forecasted incentives, anticipated volume of future purchases, and inventory levels in the channel.
The Company has agreements with certain customers that contain terms allowing price protection credits to be issued in the event of a subsequent price reduction.
Product return rights vary by customer.
The Company assesses the estimated returned asset value for impairment, and adjusts the value of the asset if it becomes impaired.
Return rates can fluctuate over time but are sufficiently predictable to allow the Company to estimate expected future product returns.
Typically, variable consideration does not need to be constrained as estimates are based on predictive historical data or future commitments that are planned and controlled by the Company.
However, the Company continues to assess variable consideration estimates such that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur.
The Company regularly evaluates the adequacy of its estimates for Customer Programs and product returns.
Future market conditions and product transitions may require the Company to take action to change such programs and related estimates.
The Company has elected to exclude sales taxes from the revenue recognized from contracts with customers.
Shipping and Handling Costs 



The Company's shipping and handling costs are included in cost of goods sold in the condensed consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented.
Contract Balances



14

The Company records accounts receivable from contracts with customers when it has an unconditional right to consideration, as accounts receivable, net on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company records contract liabilities when cash payments are received or due in advance of performance, primarily for implied support and subscriptions.
Contract liabilities are included in accrual and other current liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
As of September 30, 2018 and for the period then ended, and as of April 1, 2018, the Company did not have any material contract liabilities balances or changes.
Contract Costs



The Company recognizes the incremental costs of obtaining contracts as an expense when incurred if the amortization period of the assets that otherwise would have been recognized is one year or less.
These costs are included in marketing and selling expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As of September 30, 2018 and for the period then ended, and as of April 1, 2018, the Company did not have material deferred contract costs or changes.
Allowances for Doubtful Accounts 



Allowances for doubtful accounts are maintained for estimated losses resulting from the Company's customers' inability to make required payments.
The allowances are based on the Company's regular assessment of the financial condition of specific customers, as well as its historical experience with bad debts and customer deductions, receivables aging, current economic trends, geographic or country specific risks and the financial condition of its distribution channels.
Note 2 — Business Acquisition



Blue Microphones Acquisition



On August 21, 2018 (the "Acquisition Date"), the Company acquired all equity interests in Blue Microphones Holding Corporation ("Blue Microphones") for a total consideration of $134.9 million in cash (the "Blue Microphones Acquisition"), which includes a working capital adjustment and repayment of debt on behalf of Blue Microphones.
Blue Microphones is a leading audio manufacturer that designs and produces microphones, headphones, recording tools, and accessories for audio professionals, musicians and consumers.
The Blue Microphones Acquisition is consistent with Logitech's merger and acquisition strategy and will supplement the Company's portfolio opportunities.
15

Blue Microphones meets the definition of a business, and therefore the acquisition is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the Acquisition Date (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Goodwill related to the acquisition is primarily attributable to opportunities and economies of scale from combining the operations and technologies of Logitech and Blue Microphones and is not deductible for tax purposes.
The fair value of the inventory acquired is estimated at its net realizable value, which uses the estimated selling prices, less the cost of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling efforts.
The difference between the fair value of the inventories and the amount recorded by Blue Microphones immediately before the acquisition date is $1.8 million, which will be recognized in "amortization of intangibles assets and purchase accounting effect on inventory" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations upon the sale of the acquired inventory.
The following table summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values and estimated useful lives of the components of identifiable intangible assets acquired as of the Acquisition Date (Dollars in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Intangible assets acquired as a result of the Blue Microphones Acquisition are being amortized over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method of amortization, which materially approximates the distribution of the economic value of the identified intangible assets.
Amortization of acquired developed technology of $0.2 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 is included in "amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting effect of inventory" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Amortization of the acquired customer relationships and trade name of $0.3 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 is included in "amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Developed technology relates to existing Blue Microphones products.
The economic useful life was determined based on the technology cycle related to developed technology of existing products, as well as the cash flows anticipated over the forecasted periods.
16

Customer relationships represent the fair value of future projected revenue that will be derived from sales of products to existing customers of Blue Microphones.
The economic useful life was determined based on historical customer turnover rates and industry benchmarks.
Trade name relates to the “Blue Microphones” trade name.
The economic useful life was determined based on the expected life of the trade name and the cash flows anticipated over the forecasted periods.
The fair values of developed technology and trade name were estimated using the relief-from-royalty method, an income approach (Level 3), which estimates the cost savings that accrue to the owner of the intangible assets that would otherwise be payable as royalties or license fees on revenues earned through the use of the asset.
A royalty rate is applied to the projected revenues associated with the intangible assets to determine the amount of savings, which is then discounted to determine the fair value.
The developed technology and trade name were valued using royalty rates of 10% and 3%, respectively, and both were discounted at a rate of 11%.
The fair value of customer relationships was estimated using the excess earnings method, an income approach (Level 3), which converts projected revenues and costs into cash flows.
To reflect the fact that certain other assets contributed to the cash flows generated, the returns for these contributory assets were removed to arrive at estimated cash flows solely attributable to the customer relationships, which were discounted at a rate of 11%.
The Company believes the preliminary fair values of purchased intangible assets recorded above represents their fair values and approximates the amounts a market participant would pay for these intangible assets as of the Acquisition Date.
The fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired was based on estimates and assumptions made by management at the time of the acquisition.
As additional information becomes available, such as finalization of the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and working capital adjustments that may affect the total consideration transferred, the Company may revise its preliminary estimates of fair values during the remainder of the measurement periods (which will not exceed 12 months from the Acquisition Date).
Any such revisions or changes may be material as we finalize the fair values of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The Company incurred acquisition-related costs for the Blue Microphones Acquisition of approximately $1.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
The acquisition-related costs are included in "amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related costs" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The Company included Blue Microphones' estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in its condensed consolidated balance sheet beginning on the Acquisition Date.
The results of operations for Blue Microphones subsequent to the Acquisition Date have been included in, but are not material to, the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Pro forma results of operations for the Blue Microphones Acquisition have not been presented because they are not material to the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, Blue Microphones, the acquisition of which was closed on August 21, 2018, contributed $7.7 million to net sales, representing approximately 1% of the net sales of the Company for the three-month period.
17

Note 3 — Net Income Per Share



The computations of basic and diluted net income per share for the Company were as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Share equivalents attributable to outstanding stock options, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and ESPP totaling 0.8 million and 0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 1.2 million and 1.2 million for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income per share because the combined exercise price and average unamortized grant date fair value upon exercise of these options and ESPP or vesting of RSUs were greater than the average market price of the Company's shares during the periods presented herein, and therefore their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
Note 4 — Employee Benefit Plans



Employee Share Purchase Plans and Stock Incentive Plans



As of September 30, 2018, the Company offers the 2006 ESPP (2006 Employee Share Purchase Plan (Non-U.S.)), the 1996 ESPP (1996 Employee Share Purchase Plan (U.S.)), the 2006 Plan (2006 Stock Incentive Plan) and the 2012 Plan (2012 Stock Inducement Equity Plan), each as amended.
The following table summarizes the share-based compensation expense and total income tax benefit recognized for share-based awards for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The income tax benefit in the respective period primarily consists of tax benefit related to the share-based compensation expense for the period and direct tax benefit realized, including net excess tax benefits recognized from share-based awards vested or exercised during the period.
18

As of September 30, 2018 and 2017, the balances of capitalized share-based compensation included in inventory were both $0.8 million.
Defined Benefit Plans



Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans or non-retirement post-employment benefits covering substantially all of their employees.
Benefits are provided based on employees’ years of service and earnings, or in accordance with applicable employee benefit regulations.
The Company’s practice is to fund amounts sufficient to meet the requirements set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax regulations.
The cost recorded of $2.2 million and $2.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $4.5 million and $4.6 million for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, was primarily related to service costs.
The Company has not adjusted the net provisional charge from remeasuring deferred tax assets related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act") in the United States in fiscal year 2018.
The Company continues to refine the estimate based on ongoing analysis and available information and interpretations through the third quarter of fiscal year 2019.
The income tax provision for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $6.2 million based on an effective income tax rate of 8.8% of pre-tax income, compared to an income tax provision of $4.1 million based on an effective income tax rate of 6.8% of pre-tax income for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
The income tax provision for the six months ended September 30, 2018 was $1.0 million based on an effective income tax rate of 1.0% of pre-tax income, compared to an income tax benefit of $1.3 million based on an effective income tax rate of (1.5)% of pre-tax income for the six months ended September 30, 2017.
The changes in the effective income tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, were primarily due to the mix of income and losses in the various tax jurisdictions which the Company operates and less excess tax benefits recognized in the United States in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The Company recognized excess tax benefits of $0.7 million and $9.0 million, respectively, at 21% federal corporate income tax rate post the Tax Act in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
In the same periods in fiscal year 2018, the Company recognized $1.1 million and $11.0 million of excess tax benefits, respectively, at 35% federal corporate income tax rate, after adoption of ASU 2016-09.
In the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, there were discrete tax benefits of $0.5 million and $1.4 million, respectively, from the reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations.
In the same periods ended September 30, 2017, the tax benefits from reversal of uncertain tax positions from the expiration of statutes of limitations were $0.7 million and $1.3 million, respectively.
As of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits due to uncertain tax positions was $70.4 million and $69.1 million, respectively, all of which would affect the effective income tax rate if recognized.
As of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the Company had $34.5 million and $35.0 million, respectively, in non-current income taxes payable including interest and penalties, related to the Company's income tax liability for uncertain tax positions.
As of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the Company had $2.5 million and $2.3 million, respectively, of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
Although the Company has adequately provided for uncertain tax positions, the provisions on these positions may change as revised estimates are made or the underlying matters are settled or otherwise resolved.
During fiscal year 2019, the Company continues to review its tax positions and provide for or reverse unrecognized tax 



19

benefits as issues arise.
Excluding these factors, uncertain tax positions may decrease by as much as $3.3 million from the lapse of the statutes of limitations in various jurisdictions during the next twelve months.
Note 6 — Balance Sheet Components



The following table presents the components of certain balance sheet asset amounts as of September 30 and March 31, 2018 (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



20

The following table presents the components of certain balance sheet liability amounts as of September 30 and March 31, 2018 (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Certain allowances for sales return and certain other Customer Programs were included within accounts receivable, net balance as of March 31, 2018.
Upon adoption of Topic 606, such balances are presented as accrued revenue reserve from returns and accrued customer marketing, pricing and incentive programs included in accrued and other current liabilities, and as return assets included in other current assets, respectively, on the condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2018.
Refer to Note 1 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for more information.
Note 7 — Fair Value Measurements



Fair Value Measurements



The Company considers fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The Company utilizes the following three-level fair value hierarchy to establish the priorities of the inputs used to measure fair value:



•Level 1 — Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted market prices included in Level 1, such as: quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
•Level 3 — Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
This includes certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.
21

The following table presents the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding assets related to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans, classified by the level within the fair value hierarchy (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Investment Securities



The marketable securities for the Company's deferred compensation plan were recorded at a fair value of $20.6 million and $17.7 million, as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively, based on quoted market prices.
Quoted market prices are observable inputs that are classified as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy.
Unrealized trading gains (losses) related to trading securities for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were not material and are included in other income (expense), net in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Non-marketable Investments



The Company has certain non-marketable investments included in other assets that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting, with carrying value of $5.8 million and $5.1 million as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
In addition, the Company has certain investments without readily determinable fair values due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity, and the fact that inputs used to measure fair value are unobservable and require management's judgment.
When certain events or circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, the Company revalues the investments using various assumptions, including the financial metrics and ratios of comparable public companies.
The carrying value is also adjusted for observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer.
The amount of these investments included in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 was $7.5 million and $7.3 million, respectively.
Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis



The Company’s non-financial assets, such as intangible assets and acquisition-related property, plant and equipment, are recorded at fair value only upon initial recognition or if an impairment is recognized.
There was no impairment of these assets during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 or 2017.
Note 8 — Derivative Financial Instruments



Under certain agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same type with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
However, the Company presents its derivative assets and derivative 



22

liabilities on a gross basis on the condensed consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
The fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments were not material as of September 30, 2018 or March 31, 2018.
The amount of gain (loss) recognized on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments was not material in all periods presented herein.
The following table presents the amounts of gains (losses) on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments and their locations on its condensed consolidated statements of operations and condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 Upon adoption of ASU 2017-12, the Company has started presenting the earnings impact from forward points in the same line item that is used to present the earnings impact of the hedged item, i.e.
cost of goods sold, for hedging forecasted inventory purchases and such amount is not material for all periods presented.
Cash Flow Hedges



The Company enters into cash flow hedge contracts to protect against exchange rate exposure of forecasted inventory purchases.
These hedging contracts mature within four months.
Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the hedges are deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, at which time the gains or losses are reclassified to cost of goods sold.
Cash flows from such hedges are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Hedging relationships are discontinued when hedging contract is no longer eligible for hedge accounting, or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when Company removes hedge designation for the contract.
Gains and losses in the fair value of the effective portion of the discontinued hedges continue to be reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged inventory purchases are sold, unless it is probable that the forecasted inventory purchases will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter.
In all periods presented herein, there have been no forecasted inventory purchases that were probable to not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period of time thereafter.
The notional amounts of foreign currency exchange forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases were $89.1 million as of September 30, 2018.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no currency forward contracts outstanding related to forecasted inventory purchases.
The Company had $0.3 million of net gains related to its cash flow hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of September 30, 2018 which will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
Other Derivatives



The Company also enters into foreign currency exchange forward and swap contracts to reduce the short-term effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain receivables or payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of its subsidiaries.
These contracts generally mature within one month.
The primary risk managed by using forward and swap contracts is the currency exchange rate risk.
The gains or losses on these contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations based on the changes in fair value.
The notional amounts of these contracts outstanding as of September 30, 2018 



23

and March 31, 2018 were $71.5 million and $47.2 million, respectively.
Open forward and swap contracts outstanding as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018 consisted of contracts in Mexican Pesos, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollars, Taiwan New Dollars and Australian Dollars to be settled at future dates at pre-determined exchange rates.
The fair value of all foreign currency exchange forward and swap contracts is determined based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward rates.
Cash flows from these contracts are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Note 9 — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets



The Company conducts its impairment analysis of goodwill annually at December 31 and as necessary, if changes in facts and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the Company’s reporting units may be less than its carrying amount.
There have been no events or circumstances during the six months ended September 30, 2018 that have required the Company to perform an interim assessment of goodwill.
The following table summarizes the activities in the Company’s goodwill balance during the six months ended September 30, 2018 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company's acquired intangible assets subject to amortization were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 10 — Financing Arrangements



The Company had several uncommitted, unsecured bank lines of credit aggregating $79.3 million as of September 30, 2018.
There are no financial covenants under these lines of credit with which the Company must comply.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had outstanding bank guarantees of $26.3 million under these lines of credit.
There was no borrowing outstanding under these lines of credit as of September 30, 2018 or March 31, 2018.
Note 11 — Commitments and Contingencies



Product Warranties



All of the Company's products are covered by warranty to be free from defects in material and workmanship for periods ranging from one year to five years.
The Company’s warranty doesn’t provide a service beyond assuring that the product complies with agreed-upon specifications and is not sold separately.
The warranty the Company provides qualifies as an assurance warranty and is not treated as a separate performance obligation.
The Company estimates cost of product warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized based on historical warranty claim rates, historical costs, and knowledge of specific product failures that are outside of the Company's typical experience.
The Company accrues a warranty liability for estimated costs to provide products, parts or services to repair or replace products in satisfaction of the warranty obligation.
Each quarter, the Company reevaluates estimates to assess the adequacy of recorded warranty liabilities considering the size of the installed base of 



24

products subject to warranty protection and adjusts the amounts as necessary.
When the Company experiences changes in warranty claim activity or costs associated with fulfilling those claims, the warranty liability is adjusted accordingly.
If actual product failure rates or repair costs differ from estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liabilities would be required and could materially affect the Company's results of operations.
Changes in the Company’s warranty liability for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Guarantees



Logitech Europe S.A., one of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries, guaranteed payments of certain third-party contract manufacturers’ purchase obligations.
As of September 30, 2018, the maximum amount of this guarantee was $3.8 million, of which $1.5 million of guaranteed purchase obligations were outstanding.
The scope of these indemnities varies, but in some instances, includes indemnification for damages and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
As of September 30, 2018, no amounts have been accrued for these indemnification provisions.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under its indemnification arrangements.
The Company also indemnifies its current and former directors and certain of its current and former officers.
Certain costs incurred for providing such indemnification may be recoverable under various insurance policies.
The Company is unable to reasonably estimate the maximum amount that could be payable under these arrangements because these exposures are not limited, the obligations are conditional in nature and the facts and circumstances involved in any situation that might arise are variable.
Legal Proceedings



From time to time the Company is involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of its business.
The Company is currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
The Company believes that these matters lack merit and intends to vigorously defend against them.
25

Note 12 — Shareholders’ Equity



Share Repurchase Program



In March 2017, the Company's Board of Directors approved the 2017 share buyback program, which authorizes the Company to use up to $250.0 million to purchase up to 17.3 million shares of its own shares.
The Company's share buyback program is expected to remain in effect for a period of three years.
Shares may be repurchased from time to time on the open market, through block trades or otherwise.
Purchases may be started or stopped at any time without prior notice depending on market conditions and other factors.
As of September 30, 2018, $200.0 million is still available for repurchase under the 2017 buyback program.
Cash Dividend on Shares of Common



During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of CHF 0.67 (USD equivalent of $0.69) per common share, totaling $114.0 million on the Company's outstanding common stock.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2017, the Company declared and paid cash dividends of CHF 0.61 (USD equivalent of $0.63) per common share, totaling $104.2 million on the Company's outstanding common stock.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders.
Additional Authorized and Conditional Shares



The Company has reserved conditional capital of 25,000,000 shares for potential issuance on the exercise of rights granted under the Company's employee equity incentive plans and additional conditional capital for financing purposes, representing the issuance of up to 25,000,000 shares to cover any conversion rights under a future convertible bond issuance.
During the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders of the Company authorized the Board of Directors to issue up to an additional 34,621,324 shares of the Company until September 5, 2020.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)



The accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)  Tax effect was not significant as of September 30 or March 31, 2018.
Note 13 — Segment Information



The Company has determined that it operates in a single operating segment that encompasses the design, manufacturing and marketing of peripherals for PCs, tablets and other digital platforms.
Operating performance measures are provided directly to the Company's CEO, who is considered to be the Company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The CEO periodically reviews information such as net sales and adjusted operating income (loss) to make business decisions.
These operating performance measures do not include restructuring charges (credits), net, share-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, charges from the purchase accounting effect on inventory, acquisition-related costs, change in fair value of contingent consideration from business acquisition, or gain (loss) from investments in privately held companies.
26

Net sales by product categories and sales channels, excluding intercompany transactions, for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Other category includes products that the Company currently intends to transition out of, or has already transitioned out of, because they are no longer strategic to the Company's business.
Net sales by geographic region (based on the customers’ locations) for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Sales are attributed to countries on the basis of the customers’ locations.
The United States and Germany each represented more than 10% of the total consolidated net sales for each of the periods presented herein.
China represented more than 10% of the total consolidated net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
No other countries represented 10% or more of the Company’s total consolidated net sales for the periods presented herein.
Switzerland, the Company’s home domicile, represented 4% and 3% of the Company's total consolidated net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and 2% for each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2017.
Two customer groups of the Company each represented more than 10% of the total consolidated net sales for each of the periods presented herein.
Property, plant and equipment, net by geographic region were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Property, plant and equipment, net in the United States and China were $33.5 million and $38.2 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2018, and $35.3 million and $37.9 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2018.
No 



27

other countries represented more than 10% of the Company’s total consolidated property, plant and equipment, net as of September 30, 2018 or March 31, 2018.
Property, plant and equipment, net in Switzerland, the Company’s home domicile, were $1.6 million and $1.9 million as of September 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
Note 14 — Restructuring



During the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to streamline and realign the Company's overall organizational structure and reallocate resources to support long-term growth opportunities.
In July 2018, the Company's Board of Directors approved to allow additional costs under this restructuring plan, totaling pre-tax charges of approximately $10.0 million to $15.0 million, of which $10.0 million was recognized during the first half of fiscal year 2019.
The total charges consisted of cash severance and other personnel costs and are presented as restructuring charges (credit), net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations, and the accrual balances are presented in accrued and other current liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company expects to substantially complete this restructuring within the next six to nine months.
The following table summarizes restructuring related activities during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



28

ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



From time-to-time we are involved in claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business.
We are currently subject to several such claims and a small number of legal proceedings.
We believe that these matters lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend against them.
ITEM 1A.
Customers generally order on an as-needed basis and we typically do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers.
•We must incur a large portion of our costs in advance of sales orders because we must plan research and production, order components, buy tooling equipment, and enter into development, sales and marketing, and other operating commitments prior to obtaining firm commitments from our customers.
•We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and such activity varies from period to period.
We attempt to adjust product prices over time to offset the impact of currency movements.
As a 



49

result, we must continually innovate in our new and existing product categories, introduce new products and technologies, and enhance existing products in order to remain competitive.
In addition, if we do not continue to differentiate our products through distinctive, technologically advanced features, designs, and services that are appealing to our customers and consumers, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition and our access to distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected.
The development of new products and services can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation.
The development process also can be lengthy and costly.
There are significant initial expenditures for research and development, tooling, manufacturing processes, inventory and marketing, and we may not be able to recover those investments.
We have historically targeted peripherals for the PC platform.
Consumer demand for PCs, especially in our traditional, mature markets such as North America, Western and Nordic Europe, Japan and Australia, has been declining and we expect it to continue to decline in the future.
As a result, consumer demand for PC peripherals in many of our markets is slowing and, in some cases, declining and we expect this trend may continue.
Global economic concerns, such as the varying pace of global economic recovery, political uncertainties created by policy changes such as Brexit, tariffs and policies that inhibit trade, the impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, the impact of oil prices on Russia and other countries, conflicts with either local or global financial implications and economic slowdown in China, create unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook.
As a result, we are focusing more of our attention, which may include the personnel, financial resources and management attention, on product innovations and growth opportunities, including products for the consumption of digital music, products for gaming, products for video collaboration, products for the digital home, and on other potential growth opportunities.
Gaming.
We are building a diverse business that features a variety of gaming peripherals.
Video Collaboration.
While we view the small and medium sized user groups opportunity to be large and relatively unaddressed, this is a new and evolving market segment that we and our competitors are developing.
Music.
We are focused on products for the consumption of digital music as a sales growth area.
Competition in the mobile speaker and headphone categories is intense, and we expect it to increase.
Moreover, the market for mobile speakers appears to be maturing with slower growth.
Smart Home.
While we are a leader in programmable, performance remote controls for home entertainment, the smart home market is still in its early stages and it is not yet clear when the category will produce dynamic growth or which products will succeed and be able to take advantage of market growth or to help define and grow the market.
Each of these growth categories and many of the growth opportunities that we may pursue are subject to constant and rapidly changing and evolving technologies and evolving industry standards and may be replaced by new technology concepts or platforms.
We have developed long-term value in our brands and have invested significantly in design and in our existing and new brands over the past several years.
We believe that our design and brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business and that maintaining and enhancing our brands is very important to our future growth and success.
Our brands and reputation are also dependent on third parties, such as suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, product reviewers and the media as well as online consumer product reviews, consumer recommendations and referrals.
It can take significant time, resources and expense to overcome negative publicity, reviews or perception.
The peripherals industry is intensely competitive.
Many of our competitors have broad product portfolios across several of our product categories and are able to use the strength of their brands to move into adjacent categories.
Our competitors have the ability to bring new products to market quickly and at competitive prices.
We experience aggressive price competition and other promotional activities from our primary competitors and from less-established brands, including brands owned by retail customers known as house brands.
In recent years, we have expanded the categories of products we sell and entered new markets.
We remain alert to opportunities in new categories and markets.
As we do so, we are confronting new competitors, many of which have more experience in the categories or markets and have greater marketing resources and brand name recognition than we have.
In addition, because of the continuing convergence of the markets for computing devices and consumer electronics, we expect greater competition in the future from well-established consumer electronics companies in our developing categories as well as in future categories we might enter.
Many of these companies, such as Microsoft, Apple, Google, Cisco, Sony Corporation, Samsung and others, have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we have.
Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon are leading producers of operating systems, hardware, platforms and applications with which our mice, keyboards, wireless speakers and other products are designed to operate.
In addition, Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon each has significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than Logitech, as well as greater name recognition and a larger customer base.
As a result, Microsoft, Apple, Google and Amazon each may be able to improve the functionality of its products, if any, or may choose to show preference to our competitors' products, to correspond with ongoing enhancements to its operating systems, hardware and software applications before we are able to make such improvements.
This ability could provide Microsoft, Apple, Google, Amazon or other competitors with significant lead-time advantages.
Gaming



Competitors for our Gaming products include Razer USA, Corsair, SteelSeries, Turtle Beach and Kingston, among others.
52

Video Collaboration



Our competitors for Video Collaboration products are numerous across various categories with many new entrants.
Competitors include Cisco Systems, Plantronics/Polycom, AVer Information, Yamaha, Yealink, Panacast, Crestron, Lenovo, and OWLLabs, among others.
Music



Mobile Speakers.
Our competitors for Bluetooth wireless speakers include Bose, Harman (owned by Samsung) and Beats (owned by Apple) among others.
Harman is our largest competitor.
Apple's ownership of Beats may impact our access to shelf space in Apple retail stores and adversely impact our ability to succeed in this important growth market.
Personal voice assistants and other devices that offer music, such as Sonos, Amazon's Echo, Google Home and Apple HomePod also compete with our products.
Amazon is also a significant distributor of our products.
Audio & Wearables.
In the PC speakers category, our competitors include Bose, Cyber Acoustics, Phillips and Creative Labs.
In the PC headset business, we face numerous competitors, including Plantronics, GN Netcom, Microsoft, Cisco Systems, Sennheiser, Yealink and Streamline among others.
In-ear headphones competitors include Beats, Bose, Apple, Sennheiser, and others.
In the microphone business, our competitors include Audio-Technica, Shure, Samson, Rode and MXL, among others.
Smart Home



Direct competitors in the remote control market include pro-installer-focused Universal Remote Control and new “DIY” entrants.
Indirect competition exists in the form of low-end “replacement remotes” such as Sony, RCA, GE, pure app-based solutions such as Peel, as well as device and/or subscriber-specific solutions from TV makers such as Samsung and Vizio and multisystem operators, or MSOs, such as Comcast and DirecTV.
Competition in the home control market also exists in form of home automation platforms such as Smart Things (owned by Samsung), Amazon with their Echo product, Google Home and Nest (owned by Alphabet), Wink and many other startups.
Many of these companies also integrate their products with Logitech's smart home and Harmony remote products.
Creativity & Productivity



Pointing Devices.
Apple, Microsoft and HP are our main competitors worldwide.
We also experience competition and pricing pressure from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets such as Elecom, Buffalo, Rapoo and Xiaomi.
Keyboards & Combo.
Microsoft, Apple and HP are our main competitors in our keyboard and combo product lines.
We also experience competition and pricing pressure for keyboard and combos from less-established brands, including house brands and local competitors in Asian markets.
Tablet & Other Accessories.
Competitors in the tablet keyboard market are Apple, Zagg, Kensington, Belkin, Targus and other less-established brands.
Although we are one of the leaders in the tablet keyboard market and continue to bring innovative offerings to the market, we expect the competition may increase.
Competitors in the tablet case market include Apple, OtterBox, Speck and a large number of small brands.
PC Webcams.
Our primary competitors for PC webcams are Microsoft and HP with various other manufacturers taking smaller market share.
Razer has entered the market recently, targeting gamecasters.
Our peripherals business has historically been built largely around the PC platform, which over time became relatively open, and its inputs and operating system standardized.
With the growth of mobile, tablet, gaming and other computer devices, digital music and personal voice assistants, the number of platforms has grown, and with it the complexity and increased need for us to have business and contractual relationships with the platform owners in 



53

order to produce products compatible with these platforms.
Our product portfolio includes current and future products designed for use with third-party platforms or software, such as the Apple iPad, iPod, iPhone and Siri, Android phones and tablets, Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa.
Our business in these categories relies on our access to the platforms of third parties, some of whom are our competitors.
Platform owners that are competitors have a competitive advantage in designing products for their platforms and may produce peripherals or other products that work better, or are perceived to work better, than our products in connection with those platforms.
As we expand the number of platforms and software applications with which our products are compatible, we may not be successful in launching products for those platforms or software applications, we may not be successful in establishing strong relationships with the new platform or software owners, or we may negatively impact our ability to develop and produce high-quality products on a timely basis for those platforms and software applications or we may otherwise adversely affect our relationships with existing platform or software owners.
We use our forecasts of product demand to make decisions regarding investments of our resources and production levels of our products.
We could also frustrate our customers and lose shelf space.
Over the past few years, we have expanded the types of products we sell and the geographic markets in which we sell them.
In addition, since fiscal year 2016 we have increased the percentage of our products that we manufacture in our own facilities.
This increases the inventory that we purchase and maintain to support such manufacturing.
We are also utilizing sea shipments more extensively than air delivery, which will cause us to build and ship products to our distribution centers earlier and will also result in increases in inventory.
These operational shifts increase the risk that we have excess or obsolete inventory if we do not accurately forecast product demand.
We have experienced large differences between our forecasts and actual demand for our products.
We expect other differences between forecasts and actual demand to arise in the future.
54

Our success largely depends on our ability to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified personnel, including senior management.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management and international personnel.
From time to time, we experience turnover in some of our senior management positions.
We compensate our employees through a combination of salary, bonuses, benefits and equity compensation.
Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel, including software and hardware engineers, is highly competitive.
If we fail to provide competitive compensation to our employees, it will be difficult to retain, hire and integrate qualified employees and contractors, and we may not be able to maintain and expand our business.
If we do not retain our senior managers or other key employees for any reason, we risk losing institutional knowledge, experience, expertise and other benefits of continuity as well as the ability to attract and retain other key employees.
In addition, we must carefully balance the size of our employee base with our current infrastructure, management resources and anticipated operating cash flows.
Logitech’s practice has been to provide equity incentives to its employees, but the number of shares available for equity grants is limited.
We may find it difficult to provide competitive equity incentives, and our ability to hire, retain and motivate key personnel may suffer.
Recently and in past years, we have initiated reductions in our workforce to align our employee base with our business strategy, our anticipated revenue base or with our areas of focus.
We have also experienced turnover in our workforce.
These reductions and turnover have resulted in reallocations of duties, which could result in employee uncertainty and discontent.
As we expand within and into new product categories, our products in those categories may have lower gross margins than in our traditional product categories.
As a result, we may face higher up-front investments, inventory costs associated with attempting to anticipate consumer preferences, and increased inventory write-offs.
55

As we continue our efforts to lower our costs and improve our operating leverage, we may or may not fully realize our goals.
We restructured our business in fiscal years 2014 through 2016, and we may continue to divest or discontinue non-strategic product categories.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business.
In fiscal year 2019, we are realigning our organizational structure and reallocating resources to support long-term growth opportunities.
In addition, we are continuing the rationalization of our general and administrative expense, infrastructure and indirect procurement to reduce operating expenses.
There can be no assurance that we will fully realize the desired and anticipated benefits from these activities.
To the extent that we are unable to improve our financial performance, further restructuring measures may be required in the future.
Furthermore, we are expecting to be able to use the anticipated cost savings from these activities to fund and support our current growth opportunities and incremental investments for future growth.
As part of the restructuring plans, we reduced the size of our product portfolio and the assortment of similar products at similar price points within each product category over the past several fiscal years.
While we are constantly replacing products and are dependent on the success of our new products, this product portfolio simplification has made us even more dependent on the success of the new products that we are introducing.
We continue to review our product portfolio and update our non-strategic product categories and products.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we divested our Lifesize video conferencing business and completed our exit from the OEM business.
In addition, discontinuing product categories, even categories that we consider non-strategic, reduces the size and diversification of our business and causes us to be more dependent on a smaller number of product categories.
We will evaluate acquisition opportunities that could provide us with additional product or service offerings or with additional industry expertise, assets and capabilities.
For example, we acquired ASTRO Gaming to expand into the console gaming market, we acquired Jaybird to expand into the wireless audio wearables market, we acquired Saitek to expand into the gaming simulation and controller markets, and we acquired Blue Microphones to expand into the microphones market.
Acquisitions could result in difficulties integrating acquired operations, products, technology, internal controls, personnel and management teams and result in the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities.
If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, our business could be harmed.
Several of our past acquisitions have not been successful and have led to impairment charges, including a $122.7 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2015 related to our Lifesize video conferencing business which is reported in discontinued operations.
In addition, from time to time we make strategic venture investments in other companies that provide products and services that are complementary to ours.
We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products, and we rely on their information to manage our business.
We primarily sell our products to a network of distributors, retailers and e-tailers (together our direct sales channel partners).
We are dependent on those direct sales channel partners to distribute and sell our products to indirect sales channel partners and ultimately to consumers.
The sales and business practices of all such sales channel partners, their compliance with laws and regulations, and their reputations - of which we may or may not be aware - may affect our business and our reputation.
For example, if sales at large retail stores are displaced as a result of bankruptcy, competition from Internet sales channels or otherwise, our product sales could be adversely affected.
Any loss of a major partner or distribution channel or other channel disruption could make us more dependent on alternate channels, increase pricing and promotional pressures from other partners and distribution channels, increase our marketing costs, or adversely impact buying and inventory patterns, payment terms or other contractual terms.
Our sales channel partners also sell products offered by our competitors and, in the case of retailer house brands, may also be our competitors.
If product competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms, have more products available to meet their needs, or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, or if our sales channel partners show preference for their own house brands, our sales channel partners may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products.
In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide them with higher returns.
As we expand into new product categories and markets in pursuit of growth, we will have to build relationships with new channel partners and adapt to new distribution and marketing models.
Entrenched and more experienced competitors will make these transitions difficult.
We reserve for cooperative marketing arrangements, incentive programs and pricing programs with our sales channel partners.
There could be significant differences between the actual costs of such arrangements and programs and our estimates.
We use sell-through data, which represents sales of our products by our direct retailer and e-tailer customers to consumers, and by our distributor customers to their customers, along with other metrics, to assess consumer demand for our products.
Sell-through data is subject to limitations due to collection methods and the third-party 



57

nature of the data and thus may not be an accurate indicator of actual consumer demand for our products.
In addition, we rely on channel inventory data from our sales channel partners.
Our principal manufacturing operations and third-party contract manufacturers are located in China and Southeast Asia, which exposes us to risks associated with doing business in that geographic area as well as potential tariffs, adverse tax consequences and pressure to move or diversify our manufacturing locations.
The majority of our other production is performed by third-party contract manufacturers, including original design manufacturers, in China and Malaysia.
Our manufacturing operations in China could be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation and enforcement of legal standards, strains on China’s available labor pool, changes in labor costs and other employment dynamics, high turnover among Chinese employees, infrastructure issues, import-export issues, currency transfer restrictions, natural disasters, conflicts or disagreements between China and Taiwan or China and the United States, labor unrest, and other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe.
Interpretation and enforcement of China’s laws and regulations continue to evolve and we expect differences in interpretation and enforcement to continue in the foreseeable future.
Our manufacturing operations at third-party contractors could be adversely affected by contractual disagreements, by labor unrest, by natural disasters, by strains on local communications, trade, and other infrastructures, by competition for the available labor pool or manufacturing capacity, by increasing labor and other costs, and by other trade customs and practices that are dissimilar to those in the United States and Europe.
Further, we may be exposed to fluctuations in the value of the local currency in the countries in which manufacturing occurs.
Future appreciation of these local currencies could increase our component and other raw material costs.
In addition, our labor costs could continue to rise as wage rates increase and the available labor pool declines.
If we do not successfully coordinate the worldwide manufacturing and distribution of our products, we could lose sales.
Our business requires us to coordinate the manufacture and distribution of our products over much of the world.
We rely on third parties to manufacture many of our products, manage centralized distribution centers, and transport our products.
58

We purchase certain products and key components from a limited number of sources.
From time to time, we have experienced component shortages and extended lead times on semiconductors, such as micro-controllers and optical sensors, and base metals used in our products.
As part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC adopted disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to identify and prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from those minerals.
Additional reporting obligations are being considered by the European Union.
The implementation of the existing U.S. requirements and any additional requirements in Europe could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products.
The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited, and the implementation of these requirements may decrease the number of suppliers capable of supplying our needs for certain metals.
We filed our report for the calendar year 2017 with the SEC on May 31, 2018.
We conduct operations in a number of countries and have invested significantly in growing our sales and marketing activities in China, and the effect of business, legal and political risks associated with international operations could adversely affect us.
We conduct operations in a number of countries and have invested significantly in growing our personnel and sales and marketing activities in China and, to a lesser extent, other emerging markets.
We may also increase our investments to grow sales in other emerging markets, such as Latin America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
There are risks inherent in doing business in international markets, including:



•Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;



•Compliance with laws and regulations, including environmental, tax, import/export and anti-corruption laws, which vary from country to country and over time, increasing the costs of compliance and potential risks of non-compliance;



•Varying laws, regulations and other legal protections, uncertain and varying enforcement of those laws and regulations, dependence on local authorities, and the importance of local networks and relationships;



59

•Exposure to political and financial instability, especially with the uncertainty associated with the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in certain Euro zone countries and the stability of the European Union, which may lead to reduced sales, currency exchange losses and collection difficulties or other losses;



•Political and economic uncertainty around the world, including uncertainty resulting from the recent United States presidential and congressional elections, change of administration in the United States and the United Kingdom's referendum in June 2016, and other national elections and policy shifts;



•Import or export restrictions or licensing requirements that could affect some of our products, including those with encryption technology;



•Trade protection measures, custom duties, tariffs, import or export duties, and other trade barriers, restrictions and regulations;



•Lack of infrastructure or services necessary or appropriate to support our products and services;



•Exposure to fluctuations in the value of local currencies;



•Difficulties and increased costs in establishing sales and distribution channels in unfamiliar markets, with their own market characteristics and competition, including entrenched local competition;



•Weak protection of our intellectual property rights;



•Higher credit risks;



•Changes in VAT (value-added tax) or VAT reimbursement;



•Imposition of currency exchange controls;



•Delays from customs brokers or government agencies; and



•A broad range of customs, consumer trends, and more.
Sales growth in key markets, including China, is an important part of our expectations for our business.
The U.S. government has indicated and demonstrated its intent to alter its approach to international trade policy through the renegotiation, and potential termination, of certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements and treaties with, and the imposition of tariffs on a wide range of products and other goods from, China, countries in EMEA and other countries.
Given our manufacturing in those countries, and our lack of manufacturing elsewhere, policy changes in the United States or other countries, such as the tariffs already proposed, implemented and threatened in 2018, present particular risks for us.
There are also risks associated with retaliatory tariffs and resulting trade wars.
We cannot predict future trade policy, the terms of any renegotiated trade agreements or treaties, or tariffs and their impact on our business.
A trade war could have a significant adverse effect on world trade and the world economy.
To the extent that trade tariffs and other restrictions imposed by the United States or other countries increase the price of, or limit the amount of, our products or components or materials used in our products imported into the United States or other countries, or create adverse tax consequences, the cost or gross margin of our products may be adversely affected 



60

and the demand from our customers for products and services may be diminished.
If we deem it necessary to alter all or a portion of our activities or operations in response to such policies, agreements or tariffs, our capital and operating costs may increase.
Our financial performance is subject to risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.
Therefore, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates.
Our primary exposure to movements in currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S.
Dollar-denominated sales and operating expenses worldwide.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, approximately 51% of our revenue was in non-U.S. denominated currencies.
The weakening of currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar adversely affects the U.S. Dollar value of our non-U.S.
Dollar-denominated sales and earnings.
Margins on sales of our products in non-U.S.
Dollar-denominated countries and on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers in non-U.S.
Dollar-denominated countries could be adversely affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Dollar-denominated sales and earnings.
Conversely, strengthening of currency rates may also increase our product component costs and other expenses denominated in those currencies, adversely affecting operating results.
We further note that a larger portion of our sales than of our expenses are denominated in non-U.S. denominated currencies.
We use derivative instruments to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
The use of such hedging activities may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in currency exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place and do not protect us from long term shifts in currency exchange rates.
Moreover, these exposures may change over time.
As a company operating in many markets and jurisdictions and expanding into new growth categories, and as a Swiss, dual - listed company, we are subject to risks associated with new, existing and potential future laws and regulations.
Based on our current business model and as we expand into new markets and product categories, we must comply with a wide variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, health and safety, hazardous materials usage, product-related energy consumption, packaging, recycling and environmental matters.
Our products may be required to obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where they are manufactured, sold or both.
These requirements create procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide or obtain compliant materials, parts and end products.
As a Swiss company with shares listed on both the SIX Swiss Exchange and the Nasdaq Global Select Market, we are also subject to both Swiss and United States corporate governance and securities laws and regulations.
In addition to the extra costs and regulatory burdens of our dual regulatory obligations, the two regulatory regimes may not always be compatible and may impose disclosure obligations, operating restrictions or tax effects on our business to which our competitors and other companies are not subject.
For example, on January 1, 2014, subject to certain transitional provisions, the Swiss Federal Council Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation at Public Companies (the Ordinance) became effective in connection with the Minder initiative approved by Swiss voters during 2013.
The Ordinance, among other things, (a) requires a binding shareholder “say on pay” vote with respect 



61

to the compensation of members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (b) generally prohibits the making of severance, advance, transaction premiums and similar payments to members of our executive management and Board of Directors, (c) imposes other restrictive compensation practices, and (d) requires that our articles of incorporation specify various compensation-related matters.
In addition, during 2013, Swiss voters considered an initiative to limit pay for a chief executive officer to a multiple of no more than twelve times the salary of the lowest-paid employee.
Although voters rejected that initiative, it did receive substantial voter support.
The Ordinance, potential future initiatives relating to corporate governance or executive compensation, and Swiss voter sentiment in favor of such regulations may increase our non-operating costs and adversely affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and members of our Board of Directors.
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP which are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB, the SEC and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles.
There is no assurance that our effective income tax rate will not change in future periods.
We are incorporated in the Canton of Vaud in Switzerland and our effective income tax rate benefits from a longstanding ruling from the Canton of Vaud.
These changes continue to progress through Switzerland legislative process.
For example, policy changes in the United States or China predicated on our presence in those countries could adversely affect where we recognize profit and our effective income tax rate.
If our effective income tax rate increases in future periods, our net income and cash flows could be adversely affected.
We have been expanding the categories of products we sell, such as entering new markets and introducing products for tablets, other mobile devices, digital music, and video collaboration.
We expect to continue to enter new categories and markets.
Infringement claims against us may also increase as the functionality of video, voice, data and conferencing products begin to overlap.
Our future success depends in part on our proprietary technology, technical know-how and other intellectual property.
We hold various United States patents and pending applications, together with corresponding patents and pending applications from other countries.
Unauthorized parties have copied and may in the future attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards.
The products that we sell could contain defects in design or manufacture.
Defects could also occur in the products or components that are supplied to us.
There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and remedy all defects in the hardware and software we sell.
While we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase liability insurance, our reserves may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities and our insurance is subject to deductibles and may not be adequate to cover such claims and liabilities.
Significant disruptions in, or breaches in security of, our websites or information technology systems could adversely affect our business.
As a consumer electronics company, our websites are an important presentation of our company, identity and brands and an important means of interaction with and source of information for consumers of our products.
We also rely on our centralized information technology systems for product-related information and to store intellectual property, forecast our business, maintain financial records, manage operations and inventory, and operate other critical functions.
We allocate significant resources to maintain our information technology systems and deploy network security, data encryption, training and other measures to protect against unauthorized access or misuse.
Nevertheless, our websites and information technology systems are susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, structural or operational failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, other data security issues, telecommunication failures, user error, malfeasance, catastrophes, system or software upgrades, integration or migration, or other foreseeable and unforeseen events.
From time to time, we and our suppliers have identified vulnerabilities or other issues that we believe have been addressed, and we expect such issues to continue to arise.
Breaches or disruptions of our websites or information technology 



63

systems, breaches of confidential information, data corruption or other data security issues could adversely affect our brands, reputation, relationships with customers or business partners, or consumer or investor perception of our company, business or products or result in disruptions of our operations, loss of intellectual property or our customers’ or our business partners’ data, reduced value of our investments in our brands, design, research and development or engineering, or costs to address regulatory inquiries or actions or private litigation, to respond to customers or partners or to rebuild or restore our websites or information technology systems.
The collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution of user data could give rise to liabilities and additional costs of operation as a result of laws, governmental regulation and risks of security breaches.
In connection with certain of our products, we collect data related to our consumers.
This information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, and especially in Europe.
For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which is applicable to us and to all companies processing data of European Union residents, became effective in May 2018 and imposes significant fines and sanctions for violation of the Regulation.
Government actions are typically intended to protect the privacy and security of personal information and its collection, storage, transmission, use and distribution in or from the governing jurisdiction.
In addition, because various jurisdictions have different laws and regulations concerning the use, storage and transmission of such information, we may face requirements that pose compliance challenges in existing markets as well as new international markets that we seek to enter.
The collection of user data heightens the risk of security breaches and other data security issues related to our IT systems and the systems of third-party data storage and other service and IT providers.
Such laws and regulations, and the variation between jurisdictions, as well as additional security measures and risk, could subject us to costs, allocation of additional resources, liabilities or negative publicity that could adversely affect our business.
In connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have identified in the past and may, from time-to-time in the future, identify issues with our internal controls and deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting.
The most recent material weakness was identified during the preparation of our audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2017, and was related to the allowances and accruals for customer incentives, cooperative marketing and pricing programs.
In the past, we have identified other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, as described in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2017, certain of which resulted in late filings of and an amendment to our periodic reports and in restatements of our financial results.
A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
We cannot ensure that our current share repurchase program will be fully utilized or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value.
We similarly cannot ensure that we will continue to increase our dividend payments or to pay dividends at all.
Share repurchases and dividends diminish our cash reserves.
In March 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a three-year $250.0 million repurchase program of our registered shares.
We have also paid cash dividends and increased the size of our dividend, each year since fiscal year 2013.
Our share repurchase program does not obligate us to repurchase all or any of the dollar value of shares authorized for repurchase.
Similarly, we are not obligated to pay dividends on our registered shares.
Under Swiss law, we may only pay 



64

dividends upon the approval of a majority of our shareholders, which is under the discretion of and generally follows a recommendation by our Board of Directors that such a dividend is in the best interests of our shareholders.
There can be no assurance that our Board of Directors will continue to recommend, or that our shareholders will approve, dividend increases or any dividend at all.
If we do not pay a regular dividend, we may lose the interest of investors that focus their investments on dividend-paying companies, which could create downward pressure on our share price.
Any announcement of a termination or suspension of our share repurchase program or dividend may result in a decrease in our share price.
The share repurchase program and payment of cash dividends could also diminish our cash reserves that may be needed for investments in our business, acquisitions or other purposes.
Without dividends, the trading price of our shares must appreciate for investors to realize a gain on their investment.
Goodwill associated with a number of previous acquisitions could result in impairment charges.
The slowdown in the overall video conferencing industry together with the competitive environment in fiscal year 2013 resulted in a $214.5 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in fiscal year 2013, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations.
We recorded an additional impairment charge of goodwill of $122.7 million related to our Lifesize video conferencing discontinued operations in fiscal year 2015, reducing its goodwill to zero, which substantially impacted results of discontinued operations again.
65
