ITEM 1.Financial Statements



LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(in thousands, except per share data)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



3

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(in thousands)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



4

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(in thousands, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Derived from audited financial statements



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



5

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(in thousands) (unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



6

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



March 25, 2018 



(Unaudited)



NOTE 1 — BASIS OF PRESENTATION



The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Lam Research Corporation (“Lam Research” or the “Company”) for the fiscal year ended June 25, 2017, which are included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as of and for the year ended June 25, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”).
The Company’s reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K are available online at the Securities and Exchange Commission website on the Internet.
The address of that site is www.sec.gov.
The Company also posts its reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K on its corporate website at http://investor.lamresearch.com.
The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-Q is not a part of or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q unless expressly noted.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Lam Research and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company’s reporting period is a 52/53-week fiscal year.
The Company’s current fiscal year will end June 24, 2018 and includes 52 weeks.
The quarters ended March 25, 2018 (the “March 2018 quarter”) and March 26, 2017 (the “March 2017 quarter”) included 13 weeks.
NOTE 2 — RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



Recently Adopted



In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” This ASU amends existing guidance to require that deferred income tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a classified balance sheet, and eliminates the prior guidance which required an entity to separate deferred tax assets and liabilities into a current amount and a non-current amount in a classified balance sheet.
The Company adopted this standard prospectively in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
The Company adopted this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a $40.1 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for the recognition of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits for all years prior to the adoption.
Accordingly, the provision for income taxes in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018 included excess tax benefits of $37.1 million and $50.2 million, respectively, that decreased the income tax provision.
Additionally, the Company has elected to apply the change in cash flow classification on a prospective basis.
The Company has elected to continue to estimate the number of forfeitures 



7

expected to occur to determine the amount of compensation cost to be recognized each period.
The Company has elected to adopt the effects of the standard update with regard to the income tax withholdings obligations on a prospective basis.
The impact of the adoption of the standard applicable to income tax withholdings was not material during the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018.
In August 2017, the FASB released ASU 2017-12, “Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities.” The new guidance is intended to: (1) more closely align hedge accounting with an entity’s risk management strategies, (2) simplify the application of hedge accounting by eliminating the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness, and (3) increase transparency around the scope and results of hedging programs.
The Company is required to adopt the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, using a modified-retrospective approach for any cash flow or net investment hedges that exist on the date of adoption.
The Company elected to early adopt the standard in the current quarter.
The cumulative-effect adjustment to eliminate ineffectiveness is not material to the Company's previously issued Consolidated Financial Statements.
The presentation and disclosure have been modified on a prospective basis, as required by the standard update.
Updates Not Yet Effective



In May 2014, the FASB released Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-9, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” to supersede nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The FASB issued subsequent amendments to the initial guidance in August 2015, March 2016, April 2016, May 2016 and December 2016 within ASU 2015-14, ASU 2016-08, ASU 2016-10, ASU 2016-12 and ASU 2016-20, respectively.
The core principle of the standard is to recognize revenues when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received for those goods or services.
The new standard defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and, in doing so, it is possible more judgment and estimates may be required within the revenue recognition process than required under existing GAAP, including identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price, and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation.
The Company is required to adopt these standards starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using either of two methods: (1) retrospective to each prior reporting period presented with the option to elect certain practical expedients as defined within the standard; or (2) retrospective with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures as defined per the standard.
The Company currently anticipates adopting this new guidance using the modified retrospective transition method, and is continuing its evaluation of the impact that the new standard will have on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures, business processes, systems, and controls.
While the Company’s evaluation of the impact of the standard on its financial statements with respect to its spare parts and service revenue has not been completed, the Company believes that the timing of revenue recognition for certain of its systems will generally be earlier than under existing revenue recognition guidance.
The Company continues to evaluate the impact to its revenues related to its pending adoption of these standards and its preliminary assessments are subject to change.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-1, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The FASB issued a subsequent amendment to the initial guidance in February 2018 within ASU 2018-03.
These amendments change the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company is required to adopt these standards starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-2, “Leases.” The FASB issued a subsequent amendment to the initial guidance in January 2018 within ASU 2018-01.
The core principle of the standard requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
The amendment offers specific accounting guidance for a lessee, a lessor and sale and leaseback transactions.
Lessees and lessors are required to disclose qualitative and quantitative information about leasing arrangements to enable a user of the financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The Company is required to adopt these standards starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020 using a modified-retrospective approach on the earliest period presented.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will 



8

result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021 using a modified-retrospective approach.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
The Company is required to adopt the standard update in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with a retrospective transition method required.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is required to adopt the standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 using a modified-retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows.
The Company is required to adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with a retrospective transition method required.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company is required to adopt this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
NOTE 3 — EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS 



The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
The Company recognized the following equity-based compensation expense (including expense related to the employee stock purchase plan) and related income tax benefit in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The estimated fair value of the Company’s stock-based awards, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards’ vesting term on a straight-line basis.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-9, “Compensation – Stock Compensation,” as discussed further in Note 2.
9

Stock Options



The fair value of the Company’s stock options granted during the nine months ended March 25, 2018 was estimated using a Black-Scholes options valuation model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the estimated life of each award.
The following table summarizes stock option activity:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Restricted Stock



The Company granted both service-based RSUs and market-based PRSUs during the nine months ended March 25, 2018.
The fair value of the Company’s service-based RSUs was calculated based on the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the grant date, discounted for dividends.
The fair value of the Company’s market-based PRSUs was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model at the date of the grant.
Market-based PRSUs generally vest three years from the grant date if certain performance criteria are achieved and require continued employment.
Based upon the terms of such awards, the number of shares that can be earned over the performance periods is based on the Company’s Common Stock price performance compared to the market price performance of the Philadelphia Semiconductor Sector Index (“SOX”), ranging from 0% to 150% of target.
The stock price performance or market price performance is measured using the closing price for the 50-trading days prior to the dates the performance period begins and ends.
The target number of shares represented by the market-based PRSUs is increased by 2% of target for each 1% that Common Stock price performance exceeds the market price performance of the SOX index.
The result of the vesting formula is rounded down to the nearest whole number.
The following table summarizes restricted stock activity:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



ESPP



The 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated (the “1999 ESPP”), allows employees to designate a portion of their base compensation to be withheld through payroll deductions and used to purchase Common Stock at a purchase price per share equal to the lower of 85% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the first or last day of the applicable purchase period.
Typically, each offering period lasts up to twelve months and comprises two interim purchase dates.
In 2017, the ESPP plan transitioned from three to two purchases per year.
These purchases occur in six month increments on the last trading days of April and October.
During the nine months ended March 25, 2018, a total of 412,469 shares of the Company’s Common Stock were sold to employees under the 1999 ESPP.
No shares of Common Stock were sold to employees during the three months ended March 25, 2018.
10

Purchase rights under the 1999 ESPP were valued using the Black-Scholes option valuation model and the following weighted-average assumptions for the nine months ended March 25, 2018 and three and nine months ended March 26, 2017; there were no ESPP purchase rights issued in the three months ended March 25, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 4 — OTHER EXPENSE, NET 



The significant components of other expense, net, are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest income in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, increased compared to same period in 2017 due to higher yield and balances.
Interest expense decreased in the nine months ended March 25, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to the termination of the Term Loan Agreement and mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes due 2023 and 2026 during the December 2016 quarter.
The loss on impairment of investments in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018 is the result of a decision to sell selected investments held in foreign jurisdictions in conjunction with our cash repatriation strategy following the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act of 2017.
Loss on extinguishment of debt realized in the nine months ended March 26, 2017 is primarily a result of the mandatory redemption of the Senior Notes Due 2023 and 2026 as well as the termination of the Term Loan Agreement.
tax reform”) was signed into law and is effective for the Company starting in the quarter ended December 24, 2017.
In conjunction, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 118, which allows for the recording of provisional amounts related to U.S. tax reform and subsequent adjustments related to U.S. tax reform during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations.
As such, there is significant activity in the nine months ended March 25, 2018, which reflects the change in legislation.
Most of that activity has provisionally been recorded in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in the period ended December 24, 2017, as the Company has not yet completed the accounting for the tax effects of enactment.
The Company has recorded what it believes to be a reasonable estimate and the provisional activity is subject to further adjustments under SAB 118.
In addition, for significant items for which the Company could not make a reasonable estimate, no provisional activity was recorded.
The activity will be recorded during the measurement period allowed under SAB 118 when a reasonable estimate can be made, or when the effect of the activity is known.
The Company will continue to refine the provisional balances and adjustments may be made under SAB 118 during the measurement period as a result of 



11

future changes in interpretation, information available, assumptions made by the Company and/or issuance of additional guidance; these adjustments could be material.
The Company recorded an income tax (benefit) expense of $(7.1) million and $834.1 million for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately (0.9)% and 38.0%, respectively.
As the Company has a fiscal year ending the last Sunday in June, it is subject to transitional tax rate rules.
Therefore, a blended rate of 28.27% was computed as effective for the current fiscal year.
The difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 28.27% and the Company’s effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018 is primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax reform, outlined below, and income in lower tax jurisdictions.
Revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax balances to reflect the new U.S. federal statutory tax rate and computation of the one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings were recorded on a provisional basis in the nine months ended March 25, 2018 and are therefore subject to potential measurement period adjustments under SAB 118.
The Company revalued the deferred tax balances based on the tax rates at which the balance, or a portion of the balance, is expected to reverse in the future.
Generally, this is 21%, but for certain balances which are expected to reverse at the Company’s current fiscal year blended rate.
The Company has not yet completed the revaluation of the deferred tax balances due to estimates which are being used during interim periods until finalization of the balances can occur at the Company’s fiscal year end.
The provisional amount recorded related to the revaluation of the Company’s deferred tax balance was $42.7 million, and an associated tax liability was remeasured at $54.4 million, which is the tax effect of when the balance is expected to reverse.
The Company had previously accrued deferred taxes on a portion of this E&P.
The Company has not yet completed the calculation of total post-1986 E&P and related income tax pools for its foreign subsidiaries.
The Company recorded a provisional amount for the one-time transition tax of $991.3 million, which was offset by the release of the associated previously accrued deferred taxes of $287.8 million.
The net increase to tax expense recognized in the three months ended December 24, 2017 was $703.5 million.
The one-time transition tax may be elected to be paid over a period of eight years.
The Company intends to make this election.
The GILTI provision imposes taxes on foreign earnings in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets.
This tax is effective for the Company after the end of the current fiscal year.
Based on current interpretation, the Company may choose either method as an accounting policy election.
The Company has not yet decided on the accounting policy related to GILTI and will only do so after completion of the GILTI analysis.
The provisions related to GILTI are subject to adjustment during the measurement period under SAB 118.
The Company is in various stages of examination in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled.
It is reasonably possible that over the next 12-month period the Company may experience an increase or decrease in its unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax examinations or lapses of statute of limitations.
The estimated reduction in unrecognized tax benefits may range up to $91 million.
12

NOTE 6 — NET INCOME PER SHARE



Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share is computed using the treasury stock method, for dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, convertible notes, and warrants.
Dilutive shares outstanding include the effect of the convertible notes.
Refer to Note 11 for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes.
The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted computations for net income per share.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For purposes of computing diluted net income per share, weighted-average common shares do not include potentially dilutive securities that are anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method.
NOTE 7 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS



The Company maintains an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities.
Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices.
Differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities are recognized as other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
Fair Value



The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
A fair value hierarchy has been established that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.
The level of an asset or liability in the hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Assets and liabilities carried at fair value are classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories:



13

Level 1: Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities with sufficient volume and frequency of transactions.
Level 2: Valuations based on observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or model-derived valuations techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data, for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3: Valuations based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of fair value of assets or liabilities and based on non-binding, broker-provided price quotes and may not have been corroborated by observable market data.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities.
The estimated fair values of capital lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis.
Refer to Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s Senior Notes and Convertible Notes.
The following table sets forth the Company’s cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, and other assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of March 25, 2018, and June 25, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company accounts for its investment portfolio at fair value.
Realized gains (losses) for investment sales are specifically identified.
Management assesses the fair value of investments in debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received from the investments.
The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value.
Additionally, the Company also considers factors such as the Company’s intent to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis.
During the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, the Company recorded a $42.5 million other-than-temporary impairment charge on a portion of its available-for-sale investments as a result of a decision to sell selected investments held in foreign jurisdictions in conjunction with our cash repatriation strategy following the U.S. tax reform legislation.
The Company did not recognize any losses on investments due to other-than-temporary impairments during the three and nine months ended March 26, 2017.
The Company does not intend to sell its domestic investment portfolio and it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell these investments before recovery of their amortized cost bases.
Accordingly, the Company does not consider its domestically held investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
Gross realized gains/(losses) from sales of investments were approximately $0.9 million and $(4.7) million, respectively, in the three months ended March 25, 2018, and $0.3 million and $(0.7) million, respectively, in the three months ended March 26, 2017.
Gross realized gains/(losses) from sales of investments were approximately $1.9 million and $(6.8) million, respectively, in the nine months ended March 25, 2018 and $3.0 million and $(1.3) million, respectively, in the nine months ended March 26, 2017.
15

The following is an analysis of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investment in unrealized loss positions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The amortized cost and fair value of cash equivalents, investments, and restricted investments with contractual maturities are as follows as of March 25, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than twelve months from the date of purchase nonetheless are classified as short-term on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging



The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk.
The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.
Cash Flow Hedges



The Company’s financial position is routinely subjected to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar transactions or cash flows, primarily from Japanese yen-denominated revenues and euro- denominated and Korean won-denominated expenses.
The Company’s policy is to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising from the fluctuations in the value of these non-U.S. dollar denominated transactions or cash flows through a foreign currency cash flow hedging program, using forward contracts and foreign currency options that generally expire within 12 months and no later than 24 months.
These hedge contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on the Company’s balance sheet at fair value with the effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in revenue/expense in the same period the hedged items are recognized.
In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt.
The effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses is included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) and is amortized into income as the hedged item impacts earnings.
At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis.
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of 



16

effectiveness.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must meet criteria relating to both the derivative instrument and the hedged item.
These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured.
There were no material gains or losses during the three or nine months ended March 25, 2018 and March 26, 2017 associated with ineffectiveness or forecasted transactions that failed to occur.
To receive hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge, and the hedges must be tested to demonstrate an expectation of providing highly effective offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
Consequently the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in earnings.
Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately.
As of March 25, 2018, the Company had a net loss of $23.6 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Additionally, as of March 25, 2018, the Company had a net loss of $1.8 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 7.0 years.
Fair Value Hedges



The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
These interest rate contracts are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized.
Balance Sheet Hedges



The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
These forward contracts are not designated for hedge accounting treatment.
17

As of March 25, 2018, the Company had the following outstanding foreign currency contracts that were entered into under its cash flow and balance sheet hedge programs:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The fair value of derivative instruments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 25, 2018, and June 25, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet.
As of March 25, 2018, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $3.1 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $0.1 million and net derivative liability of $54.7 million.
As of June 25, 2017, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by $5.9 million, 



18

resulting in a net derivative asset of $2.3 million and a net derivative liability of $7.4 million.
The Company is not required to pledge, nor is the Company entitled to receive, cash collateral for these derivative transactions.
The effect of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, including accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of derivative instruments not designated as cash flow hedges on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

The following table presents the effect of fair value cash flow hedge accounting on the Statement of Financial Performance:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Concentrations of Credit Risk



Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
Cash is placed on deposit at large global financial institutions.
Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits.
Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash are creditworthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to these balances.
The Company’s overall portfolio of available-for-sale securities must maintain an average minimum rating of “AA-” or “Aa3” as rated by Standard and Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, or Moody’s Investor Services.
To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
These counterparties are large global financial institutions and, to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to the Company.
Credit risk evaluations, including trade references, bank references, and Dun & Bradstreet ratings, are performed on all new customers and the Company monitors its customers’ financial condition and payment performance.
In general, the Company does not require collateral on sales.
20

NOTE 8 — INVENTORIES 



Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value.
System shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance, are classified as finished goods inventory and carried at cost until title transfers.
Inventories consist of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 9 — GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS



Goodwill



The balance of goodwill is approximately $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion as of March 25, 2018, and June 25, 2017, respectively.
Intangible Assets



The following table provides the Company’s intangible assets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company recognized $40.8 million and $38.6 million in intangible asset amortization expense during the three months ended March 25, 2018, and March 26, 2017, respectively.
During the nine months ended March 25, 2018 and March 26, 2017, the company recognized $120.9 million and $115.9 million, respectively, in intangible asset amortization expense.
Refer to Note 15 - Business Combinations for additional information regarding intangible assets acquired during the nine months ended March 25, 2018.
The estimated future amortization expense of intangible assets as of March 25, 2018, was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



21

NOTE 10 — ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES



Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consist of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 11 — LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER BORROWINGS



As of March 25, 2018, and June 25, 2017, the Company’s outstanding debt consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



____________________________



(1) As of March 25, 2018, these notes were convertible at the option of the bondholder, as a result of the condition described in (4) below.
Upon closure of the conversion period, the 2041 Notes not converted will be reclassified back into noncurrent liabilities and the temporary equity will be reclassified into permanent equity.
(2) As of June 25, 2017, these notes were convertible at the option of the bond holder, as a result of the condition described in (4) below.
(3) Represents the weighted average effective interest rate for all outstanding balances as of March 25, 2018.
(4) As of the report date, the market value of the Company’s Common Stock was greater than 130% of the convertible notes conversion price for 20 or more of the 30 consecutive trading days preceding the quarter-end.
As a result, the 2041 Notes were classified in current liabilities and a portion of the equity component, associated with the convertible notes representing the unamortized discount, was classified in temporary equity on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Convertible Senior Notes



In May 2011, the Company issued and sold $450 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due May 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) at par.
The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 1.25%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year.
In June 2012, with the acquisition of Novellus Systems, Inc. (“Novellus”), the Company assumed $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due May 2041 (the “2041 Notes,” and collectively with the 2018 Notes, 



22

the “Convertible Notes”).
The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 2.625%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year on the 2041 Notes.
The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.
The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes.
The initial debt components of the Convertible Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively.
The equity component was initially valued equal to the principle value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.
The number of shares each debenture is convertible into is based on conversion rates, disclosed in the table below.
The principal value of Convertible Note conversions in the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, was approximately $227.9 million and $574.2 million, respectively.
During the quarter ended March 25, 2018, and in the subsequent period through Apri1 24, 2018, the Company received notice of conversion of an additional $5.9 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending June 24, 2018.
All remaining 2018 Notes mature within the quarter ended June 24, 2018.
Selected additional information regarding the Convertible Notes outstanding as of March 25, 2018, and June 25, 2017, is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Convertible Note Hedges and Warrants



Concurrent with the issuance of the 2018 Notes the Company purchased a convertible note hedge and sold warrants.
The warrants settlement is contractually defined as net share settlement.
The exercise price is adjusted for certain corporate events, including dividends on the Company’s Common Stock.
As of March 25, 2018, the warrants associated with the 2018 Notes had not been exercised and remained outstanding.
In conjunction with the convertible note hedge, counterparties agreed to sell to the Company shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2018 Notes in full.
The convertible note hedge transactions will be settled in net shares and will terminate upon the earlier of the maturity date or the first day none of the respective notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise.
Settlement of the convertible note hedge in net shares, based on the number of shares issued upon conversion of the 2018 Notes, on the expiration date would result in the Company receiving net shares equivalent to the number of shares issuable by the Company upon conversion of the 2018 Notes.
The exercise price is adjusted for certain corporate events, including dividends on the Company’s Common Stock.
During the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018 the note hedge was partially settled, resulting in the receipt of approximately 395,000 and 2,854,000 shares, respectively.
23

The following table presents the details of the warrants and convertible note hedge arrangements as of March 25, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Senior Notes



On March 12, 2015, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March, 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March, 2025 (the “2025 Notes”, together with the 2020 Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80%, on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate.
Refer to Note 7 for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts.
The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect of the Senior Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes and before December 15, 2024, for the 2025 Notes.
The Company may redeem the Senior Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes and on or after December 24, 2024, for the 2025 Notes.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
On June 7, 2016, The Company completed a public offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due June 2021 (the “2021 Notes”, together with the 2020 and 2025 Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.80% on the 2021 Notes on a semi-annual basis on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect to the 2021 Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before May 15, 2021.
The Company may redeem the 2021 Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after May 15, 2021.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the 2021 Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the respective note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Selected additional information regarding the Senior Notes outstanding as of March 25, 2018, is as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Commercial Paper Program



On November 13, 2017, the Company established a new commercial paper program (“the CP Program”) under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion.
The net proceeds from the commercial paper program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of the Company’s Common Stock from time to time and under the Company’s stock repurchase 



24

program.
As of March 25, 2018, borrowings under the CP Program totaled $999.9 million, with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.21% and maturities of 90 days or less.
Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.
Revolving Credit Facility



On October 13, 2017, the Company entered into Amendment No.
2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “2nd Amendment”), which amends the Company’s prior unsecured Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd Amendment, the “Amended Credit Agreement”).
Among other things, the Amended Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million increase to the Company’s revolving credit facility, from $750 million to $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders.
The Amended Credit Agreement provides for an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
The facility matures on October 13, 2022.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is, at the Company’s option, based on (1) a base rate, defined as the greatest of (a) prime rate, (b) Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.5%, or (2) LIBOR multiplied by the statutory rate, plus a spread of 0.9% to 1.5% in each case as the applicable spread is determined based on the rating of the Company’s non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt.
Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable upon maturity.
Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Company’s credit rating.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants, financial covenants and events of default.
As of March 25, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and was in compliance with all financial covenants.
Interest Cost



The following table presents the amount of interest cost recognized relating to both the contractual interest coupon and amortization of the debt discount, issuance costs, and effective portion of interest rate contracts with respect to the Convertible Notes, the Senior Notes, the term loan agreement, commercial paper, and the revolving credit facility during the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, and March 26, 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 12 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Operating Leases and Related Guarantees



The Company leases the majority of its administrative, research and development (“R&D”) and manufacturing facilities, regional sales/service offices, and certain equipment under non-cancelable operating leases.
Certain of the Company’s facility leases for buildings located at its Fremont, California headquarters and certain other facility leases provide the Company with options to extend the leases for additional periods or to purchase the facilities.
Certain of the Company’s facility leases provide for periodic rent increases based on the general rate of inflation.
The Company has operating leases regarding certain improved properties in Fremont and Livermore, California (the “Operating Leases”).
The Company was required to maintain cash collateral in an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million in separate interest-bearing accounts as security for the Company’s obligations.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 25, 2018.
During the term of the Operating Leases and when the terms of the Operating Leases expire, the property subject to those Operating Leases may be remarketed.
The Company has guaranteed to the lessor that each property will have a certain minimum residual value.
The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the Operating Leases is generally no more than approximately $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to an Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.
25

Other Guarantees



The Company has issued certain indemnifications to its lessors for taxes and general liability under some of its agreements.
The Company has entered into certain insurance contracts that are intended to limit its exposure to such indemnifications.
As of March 25, 2018, the Company had not recorded any liability in connection with these indemnifications, as it does not believe that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, its customers for infringement of third party intellectual property rights by the Company’s products or services.
The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations.
The Company does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
The Company provides guarantees and standby letters of credit to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated during the ordinary course of business.
As of March 25, 2018, the maximum potential amount of future payments that it could be required to make under these arrangements and letters of credit was $21.6 million.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid.
Warranties



The Company provides standard warranties on its systems.
The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements.
Changes in the Company’s product warranty reserves were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Legal proceedings



While the Company is not currently a party to any legal proceedings that it believes material, the Company is either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
NOTE 13 — STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM



In March 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of Common Stock.
The new authorization increases the share repurchase authorization granted in November 2017 to an aggregate of $4.0 billion of Common Stock, and supplements the remaining balances from any prior authorizations.
These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law.
Repurchases are funded using the Company’s on-shore cash, on-shore cash generation, and available credit facilities.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
26

Repurchases under the repurchase program were as follows during the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Average price paid per share excludes effect of accelerated share repurchases; see additional disclosure below regarding our accelerated share repurchase activity during the fiscal year.
In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018, the Company acquired 451 thousand shares at a total cost of $81.2 million and 560 thousand shares at a total cost of $101.4 million, respectively, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation plans.
The shares retained by the Company through these net share settlements are not a part of the Board-authorized repurchase program but instead are authorized under the Company’s equity compensation plan.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements Executed in December Quarter



On November 20, 2017, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "November 2017 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $1.0 billion of Common Stock.
The Company took an initial delivery of 3,254,300 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on November 20, 2017.
The total number of shares to be received under the November 2017 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Final settlement of two of the transactions occurred on February 1, 2018 and February 2, 2018.
Approximately 1,019,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $189.03 for the transaction period.
Final settlement for the remaining transactions will be completed no later than May 24, 2018.
Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements Settled in Fiscal Year



On April 19, 2017, the Company entered into two separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the “April 2017 ASR”) with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $500 million of Common Stock.
The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 2,570,000 shares, which represented 70% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on April 19, 2017.
The total number of shares received under the April 2017 ASR was based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of our Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
The April 2017 ASR settled on June 30, 2017.
Approximately 780,000 shares were received at final settlement, which resulted in a weighted-average share price of approximately $149.16 for the transaction period.
27

NOTE 14 — ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS



The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax at the end of the period, as well as the activity during the period, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Amount of after tax gain reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into net income located in other expense, net.
(2)Amount of after tax gain reclassified from AOCI into net income located in revenue: $6,586 loss; cost of goods sold: $2,958 gain; selling, general, and administrative expenses: $1,672 gain; and other income and expense: $63 loss.
NOTE 15 – BUSINESS COMBINATIONS



On August 28, 2017, the Company completed the acquisition of the outstanding shares of Coventor, Inc. (“Coventor”), a privately-held company that is a provider of simulation and modeling solutions for semiconductor process technology, micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS), and the Internet of Things, for a total purchase consideration of $137.6 million.
The following table represents the preliminary purchase price allocation and summarizes the aggregate estimated fair value of the net assets acquired on the closing date of the acquisition:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The preliminary fair values of net tangible and intangible assets acquired were based on preliminary valuations, and management’s estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date).
The primary area that remains open relates to the fair value of intangible assets, certain tangible assets and liabilities assumed and income taxes.
The Company expects to continue to obtain information to assist us in determining the fair value of the net assets acquired during the measurement period.
The operating results of the acquired entity, from the date of acquisition, have been included in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended March 25, 2018.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired.
None of the goodwill recognized is deductible for income tax purposes.
The identified intangible assets assumed in the acquisition of Coventor were recognized as follows based upon their fair values as of August 28, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Acquired existing technology represents the fair value of products that have reached technological feasibility and are a part of Coventor’s product offerings and customer relationships represent the fair values of the underlying relationships and agreements with Coventor’s customers.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
No priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The Semiconductor Capital Equipment Industry Is Subject to Variability and Periods of Rapid Growth or Decline; We Therefore Face Risks Related to Our Strategic Resource Allocation Decisions



The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
We continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
This would limit their ability to purchase our products and services.
Where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges.
We May Incur Impairments to Goodwill or Long-Lived Assets



We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.
Our Leverage and Debt Service Obligations and Potential Note Conversion or Related Hedging Activities May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, and Earnings per Share



We have $3.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
Additionally, we have $1.25 billion available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
We may, in the future, decide to borrow amounts under the revolving credit agreement, or to enter into additional debt arrangements.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.
Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the United States, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt.
As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds.
If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms.
If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
This dilution may not be completely mitigated by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of certain Convertible Notes or 



42

through share repurchases.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
Our Credit Agreements Contain Covenant Restrictions That May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business



We may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things:



•incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees;



•create liens;



•enter into transactions with our affiliates;



•sell certain assets; and



•merge or consolidate with any person.
In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt.
As a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that is difficult to predict.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success.
If new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
In order to develop new products and processes and enhance existing products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in R&D, to investigate the acquisition of new products and technologies, to invest in or acquire such business or technologies, and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers, or other members of the industry.
Pursuing development through collaboration and/or joint development activities rather than through an acquisition poses substantial challenges for management, including those related to aligning business 



43

objectives, sharing confidential information and intellectual property, sharing value with third parties, and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project.
Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices.
We Are Subject to Risks Relating to Product Concentration and Lack of Product Revenue Diversification



We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products.
Our products are priced up to approximately $10 million per system.
Our business is affected by our customers’ use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes.
Strategic Alliances and Customer Consolidation May Have Negative Effects on Our Business



Increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale.
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Suppliers and Outsource Providers, and We Run the Risk That They Might Not Perform as We Expect



Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
In some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.
Where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances.
These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control.
Once a Semiconductor Manufacturer Commits to Purchase a Competitor’s Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment, the Manufacturer Typically Continues to Purchase That Competitor’s Equipment, Making It More Difficult for Us to Sell Our Equipment to That Customer



Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse.
Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment for the same product line application.
We Face a Challenging and Complex Competitive Environment



We face significant competition from multiple competitors, and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry, we may face increasing competitive pressures.
We believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer products that meet our customers’ needs, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process R&D.
Certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and/or product capabilities and to therefore achieve additional relative success in the semiconductor equipment industry.
We also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours.
In addition, we face competition from companies that exist in a more favorable legal or regulatory environment than we do, allowing the freedom of action in ways that we may be unable to match.
In many cases speed to solution is necessary for customer satisfaction and our competitors may be better positioned to achieve these objectives.
For these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide.
Our Future Success Depends Heavily on International Sales and the Management of Global Operations



Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 91%, 92%, and 92% of total revenue in the nine months ended March 25, 2018 and fiscal years 2017, and 2016, respectively.
We expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years.
We are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including but not limited to:



•trade balance issues;



•tariffs and other barriers;



•global or national economic and political conditions;



•changes in currency controls;



•differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions;



•our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts, and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers;



•compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including U.S. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws;



•fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates;



•the need for technical support resources in different locations; and



•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.
There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and the United States, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions.
This would adversely affect our business with China, Japan, Korea, and/or Taiwan and perhaps the entire Asia Pacific region.
Many of the challenges noted above are applicable in China, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of anticipated growth for our business.
We are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars.
However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won.
Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.
Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies.
The magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated.
Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances.
Our Ability to Attract, Retain, and Motivate Key Employees Is Critical to Our Success



Our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies.
This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness.
Certain Critical Information Systems, That We Rely on for the Operation of Our Business, and Products That We Sell Are Susceptible to Cybersecurity and Other Threats or Incidents



We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business.
These information systems include but are not limited to, telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, (some of which may be integrated into the products that we sell or be required in order to provide the services that we offer), network communications, and email.
These information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers, or third parties such as vendors, contractors, and Cloud providers.
In addition, we make use of Software-As-A-Service (SAAS) products for certain important business functions that are provided by third parties and hosted on their own networks and servers, or third party networks and servers, all of which rely on networks, email and/or the Internet for their function.
All of these information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure from various sources, including those using techniques that change frequently or may be disguised or difficult to detect, or designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, or that may continue undetected for an extended period of time.
Those sources may include mistakes or unauthorized actions by our employees or contractors; phishing schemes and other third-party attacks, and degradation or loss of service or access to our data due to viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment.
We have experienced cyber threats and incidents in the past.
While we have implemented ISO 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents.
A Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results



We are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals.
These regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions.
Managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies, or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations.
In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation.
In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues.
From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters.
In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.
As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets.
Moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions.
49

We Are Exposed to Various Risks from Our Regulatory Environment



We are subject to various risks related to (1) new, different, inconsistent, or even conflicting laws, rules, and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules, and regulations.
As a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, immigration or travel regulations, and antitrust regulations, among others.
To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards.
Efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.
There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Declare Cash Dividends or Repurchase Our Shares at All or in Any Particular Amounts



Our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends since April 2014.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us.
