ITEM 1.Financial Statements



LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(in thousands, except per share data)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



3

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(in thousands)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



4

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(in thousands, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Derived from audited financial statements



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



5

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(in thousands) (unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



6

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(in thousands)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements



7

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



September 29, 2019 



(Unaudited)



NOTE 1 — BASIS OF PRESENTATION



The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Lam Research Corporation (“Lam Research” or the “Company”) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2019, which are included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as of and for the year ended June 30, 2019 (the “2019 Form 10-K”).
The Company’s reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K are available online at the Securities and Exchange Commission website on the Internet.
The address of that site is www.sec.gov.
The Company also posts its reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K on its corporate website at http://investor.lamresearch.com.
The content on any website referred to in this Form 10-Q is not a part of or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-Q unless expressly noted.
The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Lam Research and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company’s reporting period is a 52/53-week fiscal year.
The Company’s current fiscal year will end June 28, 2020 and includes 52 weeks.
The quarters ended September 29, 2019 (the “September 2019 quarter”) and September 23, 2018 (the “September 2018 quarter”) included 13 weeks.
Reclassifications: Certain prior fiscal year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current fiscal year presentation.
NOTE 2 — RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS



Recently Adopted



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amendment establishes the principles that lessees and lessors shall apply to report useful information to users of financial statements about the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from a lease.
In January 2018 and July 2018 the FASB issued ASU 2018-01 and ASU 2018-11 amending the effects of ASU 2016-02, which in combination with ASU 2016-02 were codified as Accounting Standard Codification topic 842 (“ASC 842”).
The Company adopted ASC 842 on the first day of the current fiscal year, July 1, 2019, under the modified-retrospective approach, applying the amendments to prospective reporting periods.
Results for reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2019 are presented under ASC 842, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the historic accounting under ASC 840.
The Company elected the package of practical expedients that allowed the Company not to reassess (i) whether any expired or existing contracts contain leases; (ii) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases; and (iii) initial direct lease costs for existing leases.
The Company did not elect to use hindsight in connection with the adoption of ASC 842.
The Company adopted ASC 842 by recording operating right-of-use assets of $110.8 million, net of deferred rent liabilities of $3.0 million that were reclassified to operating right-of-use assets, and operating lease liabilities of $113.8 million.
The Company also recognized an adjustment of $3.0 million to retained earnings, net of tax; a reduction of $40.4 million to property and equipment, net; and a reduction of $43.8 million to finance leases ($42.3 million of which was previously recognized in long-term debt and finance lease obligations, less current portion and the remaining was previously recognized in current portion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations) related to its de-recognition of its previously recorded build-to-suit arrangements.
The adoption of the standard did not materially impact the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and had no impact on cash flows.
Updates Not Yet Effective



In June 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments – Credit Losses.” The amendment revises the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology, which will result in more timely recognition of losses on financial instruments, including but not limited to, available for sale debt securities and accounts receivable.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 



8

2021 using a modified-retrospective approach.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-18, "Collaborative Arrangements (Topic 808).” The amendment clarifies that certain transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement should be accounted for under Topic 606 when the counterparty is a customer for a good or service that is a distinct unit of account.
The amendment also precludes entities from presenting consideration from transactions with a collaborator that is not a customer together with revenue recognized from contracts with customers.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
The standard should be applied retrospectively to the period when the Company initially adopted ASC 606.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adoptions on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-04,”Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments”, that clarifies and improves areas of guidance related to the recently issued standards on credit losses (ASU 2016-13), hedging (ASU 2017-12), and recognition and measurement of financial instruments (ASU 2016-01).
The amendments generally have the same effective dates as their related standards.
If already adopted, the amendments of ASU 2016-01 and ASU 2016-13 are effective starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
The amendments of ASU 2017-12 were effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, and did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company continues to evaluate the impact of ASU 2016-13 and will consider the amendments of ASU 2019-04 as part of that process.
NOTE 3 — REVENUE



Deferred Revenue



Revenue of $198.0 million included in deferred revenue at June 30, 2019 was recognized during the three months ended September 29, 2019.
The following table summarizes the transaction price for contracts that have not yet been recognized as revenue as of September 29, 2019 and when the Company expects to recognize the amounts as revenue:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) This amount is reported in Deferred profit on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as the customers can demand the liability to be performed at any time.
Disaggregation of Revenue



The Company operates in one reportable business segment: manufacturing and servicing of wafer processing semiconductor manufacturing equipment.
The Company’s material operating segments qualify for aggregation due to their customer base and similarities in economic characteristics, nature of products and services, and processes for procurement, manufacturing, and distribution.
The Company operates in seven geographic regions: United States, China, Europe, Japan, Korea, Southeast Asia, and Taiwan.
For geographical reporting, revenue is attributed to the geographic location in which the customers’ facilities are located.
The Company serves three primary markets: memory, foundry, logic/integrated device manufacturing.
9

The following table presents the Company’s revenues disaggregated by geographic region:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table presents the percentages of system revenues to each of the primary markets we serve:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 4 — EQUITY-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS 



The Lam Research Corporation 2015 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2015 Plan”), provides for the grant of non-qualified equity-based awards of the Company’s Common Stock to eligible employees and non-employee directors, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”), and market-based performance RSUs (“market-based PRSUs”).
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
The Company’s options, RSU, and market-based PRSU awards typically vest over a period of three years.
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan that allows employees to purchase its Common Stock at a discount through payroll deductions.
The Company recognized the following equity-based compensation expense (including expense related to the employee stock purchase plan) and related income tax benefit in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



10

NOTE 5 — OTHER EXPENSE, NET 



The significant components of other expense, net, are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 6 — INCOME TAX EXPENSE 



The Company recorded an income tax expense of $58.9 million for the three months ended September 29, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 11.2%.
As of September 29, 2019, no significant adjustments have been proposed by the IRS.
The Company is unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlements, if any, with the IRS will occur.
The Company is in various stages of examinations in connection with all of its tax audits worldwide, and it is difficult to determine when these examinations will be settled.
It is reasonably possible that over the next 12-month period the Company may experience an increase or decrease in its unrecognized tax benefits as a result of tax examinations or lapses of statute of limitations.
The change in unrecognized tax benefits may range up to $9.0 million.
NOTE 7 — NET INCOME PER SHARE



Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share is computed using the treasury stock method, for dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, convertible notes, and warrants.
Dilutive shares outstanding include the effect of the convertible notes.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes.
The following table reconciles the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted computations for net income per share.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11

For purposes of computing diluted net income per share, weighted-average common shares do not include potentially dilutive securities that are anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method.
The following potentially dilutive securities were excluded:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 8 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS



The Company maintains an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
The Company’s mutual funds, which are related to the Company’s obligations under the deferred compensation plan, are classified as trading securities.
Investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices.
Differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities are recognized as other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
Fair Value



The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
A fair value hierarchy has been established that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.
The level of an asset or liability in the hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Assets and liabilities carried at fair value are classified and disclosed in one of the following three categories:



Level 1: Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities with sufficient volume and frequency of transactions.
Level 2: Valuations based on observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or model-derived valuations techniques for which all significant inputs are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data, for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
Level 3: Valuations based on unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of fair value of assets or liabilities and based on non-binding, broker-provided price quotes and may not have been corroborated by observable market data.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.
The estimated fair value of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximates their carrying value due to the short period of time to their maturities.
The estimated fair values of lease obligations approximate their carrying value as the substantial majority of these obligations have interest rates that adjust to market rates on a periodic basis.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the fair value of the Company’s senior notes and convertible senior notes.
12

The following table sets forth the Company’s cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, and other assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 29, 2019, and June 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company accounts for its investment portfolio at fair value.
Realized gains (losses) for investment sales are specifically identified.
Management assesses the fair value of investments in debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received from the investments.
The Company also considers whether changes in the credit ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value.
Additionally, the Company also considers factors such as the Company’s intent to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis.
13

The Company did not recognize any losses on investments due to other-than-temporary impairments during the three months ended September 29, 2019 or September 23, 2018.
Additionally, gross realized gains/(losses) from sales of investments were insignificant in the three months ended September 29, 2019 and September 23, 2018.
The following is an analysis of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents, investments, and restricted cash and investments in unrealized loss positions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The amortized cost and fair value of cash equivalents, investments, and restricted investments with contractual maturities are as follows as of September 29, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company has the ability, if necessary, to liquidate its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12 months.
Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than 12 months from the date of purchase nonetheless are classified as short-term on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging



The Company carries derivative financial instruments (“derivatives”) on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at their fair values.
The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options with financial institutions with the primary objective of reducing volatility of earnings and cash flows related to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
In addition, the Company enters into interest rate swap arrangements to manage interest rate risk.
The counterparties to these derivatives are large global financial institutions that the Company believes are creditworthy, and therefore, it does not consider the risk of counterparty nonperformance to be material.
Cash Flow Hedges



The Company’s financial position is routinely subjected to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar transactions or cash flows, primarily from Japanese yen-denominated revenues and euro- denominated and Korean won-denominated expenses.
The Company’s policy is to mitigate the foreign exchange risk arising from the fluctuations in the value of these non-U.S. dollar denominated transactions or cash flows through a foreign currency cash flow hedging program, using forward contracts and foreign currency options that generally expire within 12 months and no later than 24 months.
These hedge contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on the Company’s balance sheet at fair value with the effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in revenue/expense in the same period the hedged items are recognized.
14

In addition, the Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in certain benchmark interest rates on fixed rate debt.
These instruments are designated as cash flow hedges at inception and are settled in conjunction with the issuance of debt.
The effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses is included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and is amortized into income as the hedged item impacts earnings.
At inception and at each quarter-end, hedges are tested prospectively and retrospectively for effectiveness using regression analysis.
Changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts due to changes in time value are included in the assessment of effectiveness.
To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must meet criteria relating to both the derivative instrument and the hedged item.
These criteria include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash flows will be measured.
There were no material gains or losses during the three months ended September 29, 2019 and September 23, 2018 associated with forecasted transactions that failed to occur.
To receive hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge, and the hedges must be tested to demonstrate an expectation of providing highly effective offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions.
When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges, the Company recognizes effective changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged exposure is realized.
Consequently, the Company’s results of operations are not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments.
If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company does not believe that the underlying hedged forecasted transactions will occur, the Company may not be able to account for its derivative instruments as cash flow hedges.
If this were to occur, future changes in the fair values of the Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in earnings.
Additionally, related amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income would be reclassified to income immediately.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $1.6 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to foreign exchange cash flow hedges which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 12 months.
Additionally, as of September 29, 2019, the Company had a net loss of $2.1 million accumulated in other comprehensive income, net of tax, related to interest rate contracts which it expects to reclassify from other comprehensive income into earnings over the next 5.5 years.
Fair Value Hedges



The Company has interest rate contracts whereby the Company receives fixed rates and pays variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates, resulting in a net increase or decrease to interest expense, a component of other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations.
These interest rate contracts are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio.
The Company concluded that these interest rate contracts meet the criteria necessary to qualify for the short-cut method of hedge accounting, and as such an assumption is made that the change in the fair value of the hedged debt, due to changes in the benchmark rate, exactly offsets the change in the fair value of the interest rate swap.
Therefore, the derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged liability, and no ineffectiveness is recognized.
During the quarter ended September 29, 2019, the Company terminated and consequently discontinued the hedging relationship of selected interest rate contracts; refer to Note 12 - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the accumulated fair value adjustment and the related amortization.
Balance Sheet Hedges



The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge fluctuations associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables.
These forward contracts are not designated for hedge accounting treatment.
15

As of September 29, 2019, the Company had the following outstanding foreign currency contracts that were entered into under its cash flow and balance sheet hedge programs:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The fair value of derivative instruments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 29, 2019, and June 30, 2019 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Under the master netting agreements with the respective counterparties to the Company’s derivative contracts, subject to applicable requirements, the Company is allowed to net settle transactions of the same currency with a single net amount payable by one party to the other.
However, the Company has elected to present the derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis on its balance sheet.
As of September 29, 2019, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to assets and liabilities by $1.3 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $0.5 million and net derivative liability of $1.7 million.
As of June 30, 2019, the potential effect of rights of offset associated with the above foreign exchange and interest rate contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities by 



16

$2.4 million, resulting in a net derivative asset of $0.5 million and a net derivative liability of $6.2 million.
The Company is not required to pledge, nor is the Company entitled to receive, cash collateral for these derivative transactions.
The effect of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, including accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effect of derivative instruments not designated as cash flow hedges on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



17

The following table presents the effect of the fair value cash flow hedge accounting on the Statement of Financial Performance as well as presents the location and amount of gain/(loss) recognized in Income on fair value and cash flow hedging relationships:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Concentrations of Credit Risk



Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, trade accounts receivable, and derivative financial instruments used in hedging activities.
Cash is placed on deposit at large global financial institutions.
Such deposits may be in excess of insured limits.
Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company’s cash are creditworthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to these balances.
The Company’s overall portfolio of available-for-sale securities must maintain an average minimum rating of “AA-” or “Aa3” as rated by Standard and Poor’s, Fitch Ratings, or Moody’s Investor Services.
To ensure diversification and minimize concentration, the Company’s policy limits the amount of credit exposure with any one financial institution or commercial issuer.
The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on foreign currency and interest rate hedge contracts that are used to mitigate the effect of exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and on contracts related to structured share repurchase arrangements.
These counterparties are large global financial institutions and, to date, no such counterparty has failed to meet its financial obligations to the Company.
Credit risk evaluations, including trade references, bank references, and Dun & Bradstreet ratings, are performed on all new customers and the Company monitors its customers’ financial condition and payment performance.
In general, the Company does not require collateral on sales.
18

NOTE 9 — INVENTORIES 



Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value.
System shipments to customers in Japan, for which title does not transfer until customer acceptance, are classified as finished goods inventory and carried at cost until title transfers.
Inventories consist of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 10 — GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS



Goodwill



The balance of goodwill is approximately $1.5 billion as of September 29, 2019 and June 30, 2019, respectively.
As of September 29, 2019, $61.1 million of the goodwill balance is tax deductible and the remaining balance is not tax deductible due to purchase accounting and applicable foreign law.
Intangible Assets



The following table provides the Company’s intangible assets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the three months ended September 29, 2019 and September 23, 2018, the Company recognized $16.2 million and $36.4 million, respectively, in intangible asset amortization expense.
The estimated future amortization expense of intangible assets as of September 29, 2019, is reflected in the table below.
The table excludes $14.6 million of capitalized costs for intangible assets that have not been placed into service.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

NOTE 11 — ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES



Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consist of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 12 — LONG-TERM DEBT AND OTHER BORROWINGS



As of September 29, 2019, and June 30, 2019, the Company’s outstanding debt consisted of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



____________________________



(1) As of the report date, these notes were convertible at the option of the bondholder.
This is a result of the following condition being met: the market value of the Company’s Common Stock was greater than 130% of the convertible notes conversion price for 20 or more of the 30 consecutive trading days preceding the quarter-end.
As a result, the 2041 Notes were classified in current liabilities and a portion of the equity component, associated with the convertible notes representing the unamortized discount, was classified in temporary equity on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Upon closure of the conversion period, the notes not converted will be reclassified back into noncurrent liabilities and the temporary equity will be reclassified into permanent equity.
(2) This amount includes a cumulative fair market gain of $3.0 million for discontinued hedging relationships, net of an immaterial amount of amortization for the three months ended, September 29, 2019.
Convertible Senior Notes



In June 2012, with the acquisition of Novellus Systems, Inc., the Company assumed $700 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2041 (the “2041 Notes”).
The Company pays cash interest at an annual rate of 2.625%, on a semi-annual basis on May 15 and November 15 of each year.
The 2041 Notes also have a contingent interest payment provision that may require the Company to pay additional interest, up to 0.60% per year, based on certain thresholds, beginning with the semi-annual interest payment on May 15, 2021, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the indenture governing the 2041 Notes.
20

The Company separately accounts for the liability and equity components of the 2041 Notes.
The initial debt components of the 2041 Notes were valued based on the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without the conversion feature, which equals the effective interest rate on the liability component disclosed in the table below, respectively.
The equity component was initially valued equal to the principal value of the notes, less the present value of the future cash flows using the Company’s borrowing rate at the date of the issuance or assumption for similar debt instruments without a conversion feature, which equated to the initial debt discount.
The 2041 Notes may be redeemed on or after May 21, 2021 at a price equal to outstanding principal plus accrued and unpaid interest if the last reported sales price of common shares has been equal to or more than 150% of the then applicable conversion price for at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days prior to the redemption notice date.
The number of shares each debenture is convertible into is based on conversion rates, disclosed in the table below.
The principal value of the 2041 Note conversions in the three months ended September 29, 2019, was approximately $28.1 million.
During the quarter ended September 29, 2019 and in the subsequent period through October 25, 2019, the Company received notice of conversion for an additional $7.3 million principal value of 2041 Notes, which will settle in the quarter ending December 29, 2019.
Selected additional information regarding the 2041 Notes outstanding as of September 29, 2019, and June 30, 2019, is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Senior Notes



On March 4, 2019, the company completed a public offering of $750 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2026 (the “2026 Notes”), $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2029 (the “2029 Notes”), and $750 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2049 (the “2049 Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 3.75%, 4.00%, and 4.875%, on the 2026, 2029, and 2049 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
On March 12, 2015, the Company completed a public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2020 (the “2020 Notes”) and $500 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s Senior Notes due March 15, 2025 (the “2025 Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.75% and 3.80% on the 2020 Notes and 2025 Notes, respectively, on a semi-annual basis on March 15 and September 15 of each year.
During the year ended June 26, 2016, the Company entered into a series of interest rate contracts hedging the fair value of a portion of the 2025 Notes par value, whereby the Company receives a fixed rate and pays a variable rate based on a certain benchmark interest rate.
Refer to Note 8 - Financial Instruments for additional information regarding these interest rate contracts.
On June 7, 2016, the Company completed a public offering of $800 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due June 2021 (the “2021 Notes”).
The Company pays interest at an annual rate of 2.80% on the 2021 Notes on a semi-annual basis on June 15 and December 15 of each year.
The Company may redeem the 2020, 2021, 2025, 2026, 2029 and 2049 Notes (collectively the “Senior Notes”) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such series (“par”), plus a “make whole” premium as described in the indenture in respect to the Senior Notes and accrued and unpaid interest before February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes, before May 15, 2021 for the 2021 Notes, before December 15, 2024 for the 2025 Notes, before January 15, 2026 for the 2026 Notes, before December 15, 2028 for the 2029 Notes, and before September 15, 2048 for the 2049 Notes.
The Company may redeem the 



21

Senior Notes at par, plus accrued and unpaid interest at any time on or after February 15, 2020, for the 2020 Notes, on or after May 15, 2021 for the 2021 Notes, on or after December 24, 2024 for the 2025 Notes, on or after January 15, 2026 for the 2026 Notes, on or after December 15, 2028 for the 2029 Notes, and on or after September 15, 2048 for the 2049 Notes.
In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the indenture, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the respective note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Selected additional information regarding the Senior Notes outstanding as of September 29, 2019, is as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Commercial Paper Program



On November 13, 2017, the Company established a commercial paper program (“the CP Program”) under which the Company may issue unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate principal amount of $1.25 billion.
The net proceeds from the commercial paper program will be used for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of the Company’s Common Stock from time to time under the Company’s stock repurchase program.
Amounts available under the CP Program may be re-borrowed.
The CP Program is backstopped by the Company’s Revolving Credit Arrangement.
As of September 29, 2019 and June 30, 2019, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the CP Program.
Revolving Credit Facility



On March 12, 2014, the Company established an unsecured Credit Agreement.
This agreement was amended on November 10, 2015 (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”), October 13, 2017 (the “2nd Amendment”), and February 25, 2019 (the “3rd Amendment”).
Under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended by the 2nd and 3rd Amendment), the Company has a revolving credit facility of $1.25 billion with a syndicate of lenders with an expansion option that will allow the Company, subject to certain requirements, to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
The facility matures on October 13, 2022.
Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is, at the Company’s option, based on (1) a base rate, defined as the greatest of (a) prime rate, (b) Federal Funds rate plus 0.5%, or (c) one-month LIBOR plus 1.0%, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.5%, or (2) LIBOR multiplied by the statutory rate, plus a spread of 0.9% to 1.50%, in each case as the applicable spread is determined based on the rating of the Company’s non-credit enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt.
Principal and any accrued and unpaid interest is due and payable upon maturity.
Additionally, the Company will pay the lenders a quarterly commitment fee that varies based on the Company’s credit rating.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains affirmative covenants, negative covenants, financial covenants and events of default.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and was in compliance with all financial covenants.
22

Interest Cost



The following table presents the amount of interest cost recognized relating to both the contractual interest coupon and amortization of the debt discount, issuance costs, and effective portion of interest rate contracts with respect to the Senior Notes, convertible notes, the term loan agreement, commercial paper, and the revolving credit facility during the three months ended September 29, 2019 and September 23, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 13 — LEASES



The Company leases certain office spaces, manufacturing and warehouse spaces, equipment, and vehicles.
On July 1, 2019 the Company adopted ASC 842.
Refer to Note 2 - Recent Accounting Pronouncements for additional information regarding the adoption.
While the majority of the Company’s lease arrangements are operating leases, the Company has certain leases that qualify as finance leases.
Lease accounting policy



Lease expense for operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company includes renewals and terminations in the calculation of the right-of-use asset and liability when the provision is reasonably certain to be exercised.
The Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of future lease payments when the rate implicit in the lease is unknown.
The Company has elected the following practical expedients and accounting policy elections for accounting under ASC 842: (i) leases with an initial lease term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; and (ii) lease and non-lease components of a contract are accounted for as a single lease component.
Lease details



The components of lease expense were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Short-term rental expense, for agreements less than one year in duration, were immaterial for the three months ended September 29, 2019.
23

Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



24

As of September 29, 2019 the maturities of lease liabilities are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Selected Operating Leases and Related Guarantees



The Company leases the majority of its administrative, research and development and manufacturing facilities, regional sales/service offices, and certain equipment under non-cancelable operating leases.
Certain of the Company’s facility leases for buildings located at its Fremont, California headquarters, Tualatin, Oregon campus, and certain other facility leases provide the Company with options to extend the leases for additional periods or to purchase the facilities.
Certain of the Company’s facility leases provide for periodic rent increases based on the general rate of inflation.
The Company has operating leases regarding certain improved properties in Fremont and Livermore, California (the “California Operating Leases”).
The Company is required to maintain cash collateral in an aggregate of approximately $250.0 million in separate interest-bearing accounts as security for the Company’s obligations.
These amounts are recorded with other restricted cash and investments in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 29, 2019.
During the term of the California Operating Leases and when the terms of the California Operating Leases expire, the property subject to the California Operating Leases may be re-marketed.
The Company has guaranteed to the lessor that each property will have a certain minimum residual value.
The aggregate guarantee made by the Company under the California Operating Leases is generally no more than $220.4 million; however, under certain default circumstances, the guarantee with regard to the California Operating Lease may be 100% of the lessor’s aggregate investment in the applicable property, which in no case will exceed $250.0 million, in the aggregate.
NOTE 14 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES



Refer to Note 13 - Leases for details regarding guarantees surrounding selected operating leases.
Other Guarantees



The Company has issued certain indemnifications to its lessors for taxes and general liability under some of its agreements.
The Company has entered into insurance contracts that are intended to limit its exposure to such indemnifications.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company had not recorded any liability on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in connection with these indemnifications, as it does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and limitations, its customers for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by the Company’s products or services.
The Company seeks to limit its liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the products or services subject to its indemnification obligations.
The Company does not believe that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under these guarantees.
The Company provides guarantees and standby letters of credit to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated during the ordinary course of business.
As of September 29, 2019, the maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these arrangements and letters of credit was $42.5 million.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid.
25

In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, consistent with its Bylaws and Certificate of Incorporation; and under local law, the Company may be required to provide indemnification to its employees for actions within the scope of their employment.
Although the Company maintains insurance contracts that cover some of the potential liability associated with these indemnification agreements, there is no guarantee that all such liabilities will be covered.
The Company does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be required to be paid under such indemnification agreements or statutory obligations.
Warranties



The Company provides standard warranties on its systems.
The liability amount is based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer, and geographic region, modified for any known differences such as the impact of system reliability improvements.
Changes in the Company’s product warranty reserves were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Legal Proceedings



While the Company is not currently a party to any legal proceedings that it believes material, the Company is either a defendant or plaintiff in various actions that have arisen from time to time in the normal course of business, including intellectual property claims.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
NOTE 15 — STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM



In November 2018, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $5.0 billion of Common Stock.
These repurchases can be conducted on the open market or as private purchases and may include the use of derivative contracts with large financial institutions, in all cases subject to compliance with applicable law.
This repurchase program has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Funding for this repurchase program may be through a combination of cash on hand, cash generation, and borrowings.
As of September 29, 2019, the Company has purchased approximately $2.0 billion of shares under this authorization, $0.5 billion via open market trading and $1.5 billion utilizing accelerated share repurchase arrangements.
Repurchases under the repurchase program were as follows during the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In addition to the shares repurchased under the Board-authorized repurchase program shown above, during the three months ended September 29, 2019, the Company acquired 14 thousand shares at a total cost of $2.9 million, which the Company withheld through net settlements to cover minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock unit awards granted under the Company’s equity compensation plans.
The shares retained by the Company through these net share settlements are not a part of the Board-authorized repurchase program but instead are authorized under the Company’s equity compensation plan.
26

Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreements 



On June 4, 2019, the Company entered into four separate accelerated share repurchase agreements (collectively, the "June 2019 ASR") with two financial institutions to repurchase a total of $750 million of Common Stock.
The Company took an initial delivery of approximately 3.1 million shares, which represented 75% of the prepayment amount divided by the Company’s closing stock price on June 4, 2019.
The total number of shares received under the June 2019 ASR will be based upon the average daily volume weighted average price of the Company’s Common Stock during the repurchase period, less an agreed upon discount.
Final settlement of the June 2019 ASR will occur no later than November 20, 2019.
NOTE 16 — ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS



The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax at September 29, 2019, as well as the activity for the three months ending September 29, 2019, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Amount of after tax loss reclassified from AOCI into net income located in revenue: $0.3 million loss; cost of goods sold: $0.7 million loss; and selling, general, and administrative expenses: $0.4 million loss.
(2) Amount of after tax loss reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into net income located in other expense, net.
Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable.
No priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear.
The Semiconductor Capital Equipment Industry Is Subject to Variability and Periods of Rapid Growth or Decline; We Therefore Face Risks Related to Our Strategic Resource Allocation Decisions



The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers, accentuated by consolidation within the industry.
The changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
We continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
This would limit their ability to purchase our products and services.
Where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges.
We manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues.
We May Incur Impairments to Goodwill or Long-lived Assets



We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets identified in business combinations and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable.
Our Leverage and Debt Service Obligations and Potential Note Conversion or Related Hedging Activities May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, and Earnings per Share



We have $4.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
Additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program.
Our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
We could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments.
Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt.
As a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds.
If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms.
If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness.
The number of shares of our Common Stock into which the Convertible Notes are convertible may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders.
Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our Common Stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders.
Prior to the maturity of the Convertible Notes, if the price of our Common Stock exceeds the conversion price, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share.
Our Credit Agreements Contain Covenant Restrictions That May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business



We may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things:



•incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees;



•create liens;



•enter into transactions with our affiliates;



•sell certain assets; and



•merge or consolidate with any person.
In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Senior Notes, the Convertible Notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt.
As a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that is difficult to predict.
We Depend on Creating New Products and Processes and Enhancing Existing Products and Processes for Our Success; Consequently, We Are Subject to Risks Associated with Rapid Technological Change



Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes.
We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products.
If new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses.
For more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips.
In the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements.
In order to develop new products and processes and enhance existing products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in R&D, to investigate the acquisition of new products and technologies, to invest in or acquire such business or technologies, and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers, or other members of the 



40

industry.
Pursuing development through collaboration and/or joint development activities rather than through an acquisition poses substantial challenges for management, including those related to aligning business objectives; sharing confidential information, intellectual property and data; sharing value with third parties; and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project.
Moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices.
We Are Subject to Risks Relating to Product Concentration and Lack of Product Revenue Diversification



We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products.
Our products are priced up to approximately $14 million per system.
Our business is affected by our customers’ use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes.
Strategic Alliances and Customer Consolidation May Have Negative Effects on Our Business



Increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale.
Similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps.
41

We Depend on a Limited Number of Key Suppliers and Outsource Providers, and We Run the Risk That They Might Not Perform as We Expect



Outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our product development, manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization.
In some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers.
Where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances.
We Face Risks Related to the Disruption of Our Primary Manufacturing Facilities



While we maintain business continuity plans, our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in a limited number of locations.
These locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control.
Once a Semiconductor Manufacturer Commits to Purchase a Competitor’s Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment, the Manufacturer Typically Continues to Purchase That Competitor’s Equipment, Making It More Difficult for Us to Sell Our Equipment to That Customer



Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse.
Accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for a product line application if that customer initially selects a competitor’s equipment for the same product line application.
We Face a Challenging and Complex Competitive Environment



We face significant competition from multiple competitors, and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry, as well as the emergence and strengthening of new, regional competitors, we may face increasing competitive pressures.
We face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers.
We believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer products that meet our customers’ needs, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process R&D.
Certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and/or product capabilities and to therefore achieve additional relative success in the semiconductor equipment industry.
We also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours.
In addition, we face competition from companies that exist in a more favorable legal or regulatory environment than we do, allowing the freedom of action in ways that we may be unable to match.
In many cases speed to solution is necessary for customer satisfaction and our competitors may be better positioned to achieve these objectives.
For these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide.
Our Future Success Depends Heavily on International Sales and the Management of Global Operations



Non-U.S. sales, as reflected in Part 1 Item 1. Business, accounted for approximately 92%, 92%, and 93% of total revenue in the three months ended September 29, 2019 and fiscal years 2019, and 2018, respectively.
We expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years.
We are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to:



•domestic and international trade policies, practices, relations, disputes and issues;



•domestic and international tariffs, export controls and other barriers;



•developing customers and/or suppliers, who may have limited access to capital resources;



•global or national economic and political conditions;



•changes in currency controls;



•differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions;



•our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts, and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers;



•compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including U.S. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws;



•fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates;



•the need for technical support resources in different locations; and



•our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business.
There is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, and the United States, that political, diplomatic and national security influences might lead to trade disputes, impacts and/or disruptions, in particular those affecting the semiconductor industry.
This would adversely affect our business with China, Japan, Korea, and/or Taiwan and perhaps the entire Asia Pacific region or global economy.
Many of the challenges noted above are applicable in China, which is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of anticipated growth for our business.
We are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
The majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars.
However, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and Korean won.
Currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in Japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and Korean won.
In addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables.
We believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation.
We expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future.
Moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges.
Additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures.
Therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies.
The magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated.
Certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances.
Our Ability to Attract, Retain, and Motivate Key Employees Is Critical to Our Success



Our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies.
This is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion, and these factors in combination may result in cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions.
Our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment.
We periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness.
Certain Critical Information Systems, That We Rely on for the Operation of Our Business and Products That We Sell, Are Susceptible to Cybersecurity and Other Threats or Incidents



We maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business.
These information systems include but are not limited to, telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, (some of which may be integrated into the products that we sell or be required in order to provide the services that we offer), network communications, and email.
These information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers, or third parties such as vendors, contractors, customers and Cloud providers.
In addition, we make use of Software-As-A-Service (SAAS) products for certain important business functions that are provided by third parties and hosted on their own networks and servers, or third-party networks and servers, all of which rely on networks, email and/or the Internet for their function.
All of these information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure from various sources, including those using techniques that change frequently or may be disguised or difficult to detect, or designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, or that may continue undetected for an extended period of time.
Those sources may include mistakes or unauthorized actions by our employees or contractors, phishing schemes and other third-party attacks, and degradation or loss of service or access to data due to viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, or physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, or networking equipment.
We have experienced cyber threats and incidents in the past.
Such adverse effects might include:



•Loss of (or inability to access, e.g.
through ransomware) confidential and/or sensitive information stored on these critical information systems or transmitted to or from those systems;



•The disruption of the proper function of our products, services and/or operations;



•The failure of our or our customers’ manufacturing processes;



•Errors in the output of our work or our customers’ work;



•The loss or public exposure of the personal information of our employees, customers or other parties;



•The public release of customer orders, financial and business plans, and operational results;



•Exposure to claims from third parties who are adversely impacted by such incidents; 



•Misappropriation or theft of our or a customer, supplier or other party’s assets or resources, and costs associated therewith;



•Diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering; or



•Our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax information and other required communications.
44

While we have implemented ISO 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third-party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents.
A Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results



We are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals.
These regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions.
Managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies, or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel, or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations.
In addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or the price of our Common Stock.
Historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our Common Stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors.
In the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation.
In addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues.
From time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters.
In such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms.
Protecting our key proprietary technology helps us achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers.
As part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques confidential and/or as trade secrets.
However, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the U.S. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to our or third parties’ intentional or unintentional actions or omissions or even those of our own employees.
Moreover, because we selectively 



46

file for patent protection in different jurisdictions, we may not have adequate protection in all jurisdictions based on such filing decisions.
We Are Exposed to Various Risks from Our Regulatory Environment



We are subject to various risks related to (1) new, different, inconsistent, or even conflicting laws, rules, and regulations that may be enacted by legislative or executive bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (2) disagreements or disputes related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules, and regulations.
As a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to export controls, financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, immigration or travel regulations, and antitrust regulations, among others.
To maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards.
Efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities.
There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Declare Cash Dividends or Repurchase Our Shares at All or in Any Particular Amounts



Our Board of Directors has declared quarterly dividends since April 2014.
Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends or the repurchasing of shares by us.
Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts.
A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our Common Stock.
