ITEM 1.
Page 3 



LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(Unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
Page 4 



LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(Unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
Page 5 



LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 



(Unaudited) 



(In thousands, except per share data) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
Page 6 



LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(Unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
Page 7 



LSI INDUSTRIES INC. 



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited) 



NOTE 1 - INTERIM CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the opinion of management, the interim financial statements include all normal adjustments and disclosures necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position as of March 31, 2019 the results of its operations for the three and nine month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, and its cash flows for the nine month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
NOTE 2 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 



Consolidation: 



A summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company’s fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) are discussed below.
Revenue Recognition:  



The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies the performance obligation in its customer contracts or purchase orders.
Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer.
For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices.
Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
For digital signage products, installation is not a separate performance obligation as the product and installation is the combined item promised in digital signage contracts.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities other than standard warranties.
For these products, the Company has a legal right to payment for performance to date and generally does not accept returns on these items.
The measurement of performance is based upon cost plus a reasonable profit margin for work completed.
Because there is no alternative use and there is a legal right to payment, the Company transfers control of the item as the item is being produced and therefore, recognizes revenue over time.
The customized product types are as follows: 



●   



Customer specific branded print graphics    



●   



Electrical components based on customer specifications    



●   



Digital signage and related media content    



The Company also offers installation services.
Installation revenue is recognized over time as our customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided through the installation process.
The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two and three dimensional graphic products.
Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges.
Practical Expedients and Exemptions 



●   



The Company’s contracts with customers have an expected duration of one year or less, as such the Company applies the practical expedient to expense sales commissions as incurred, and have omitted disclosures on the amount of remaining performance obligations.
●   



Shipping costs that are not material in context of the delivery of products are expensed as incurred.
●   



The Company’s accounts receivable balance represents the Company’s unconditional right to receive payment from its customers with contracts.
Payments are generally due within 30 to 90 days of completion of the performance obligation and invoicing, therefore, payments do not contain significant financing components.
Foreign Exchange: 



Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated using period end exchange rates.
New Accounting Pronouncements: 



On July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09.
“Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
This approach was applied to contracts that were not completed as of June 30, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period.
The Company recorded a net increase to beginning retained earnings of $591,000 on July 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting Topic 606, as described below.
Page 9 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amended guidance requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities that arise from leases.
The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.
The Company has an implementation team tasked with reviewing our lease obligations and determining the impact of the new standard to its financial statements.
The Company will continue to evaluate the new standard’s impact to its financial statements.
No items were identified during this evaluation that required adjustment to or disclosure in the accompanying financial statements other than noted below.
In April 2019, the Company announced that it entered into a definitive agreement to sell its manufacturing facility in New Windsor, New York.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company will receive approximately $12 million of gross proceeds related to the sale and expects to report a gain between $3 million to $5.5 million.
The transaction is expected to close on or before June 30, 2019 subject to the final approval from the New Windsor town officials.
On April 9, 2019, Howard E. Japlon, Executive Vice President, Human Resources & General Counsel of LSI, notified LSI of his resignation from his position with LSI to pursue opportunities in the Chicago, Illinois area.
Also, effective April 12, 2019 Jeffrey Croskey, Chief Commercial Officer, resigned from his position with LSI to pursue other opportunities.
Reclassifications: 



Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation within the cash flows from operating activities section and cash flows from financing activities section of the statement of cash flows.
These reclassifications have no impact on net income or earnings per share.
The Company’s two operating segments are Lighting and Graphics, with one executive team under the organizational structure reporting directly to the CODM with responsibilities for managing each segment.
Corporate and Eliminations, which captures the Company’s corporate administrative activities, is also reported in the segment information.
The Lighting Segment includes outdoor and indoor lighting utilizing both traditional and LED light sources that have been fabricated and assembled for the Company’s markets, primarily petroleum / convenience stores, automotive dealerships, quick-service restaurants, grocery and pharmacy store, and retail/national accounts.
The Company also services lighting product customers through the commercial industrial, stock and flow, and renovation channels.
These products are used in visual image programs in several markets including, but not limited to the petroleum / convenience store market, multi-site retail operations, banking, and restaurants.
The Graphics Segment implements, installs and provides program management services related to products sold by the Graphics Segment and by the Lighting Segment.
Page 10 



The Company’s corporate administration activities are reported in the Corporate and Eliminations line item.
These activities primarily include intercompany profit in inventory eliminations, expense related to certain corporate officers and support staff, the Company’s internal audit staff, expense related to the Company’s Board of Directors, equity compensation expense for various equity awards granted to corporate administration employees, certain consulting expenses, investor relations activities, and a portion of the Company’s legal, auditing and professional fee expenses.
There was no concentration of consolidated net sales in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
There was no concentration of accounts receivable at March 31, 2019 or June 30, 2018.
Summarized financial information for the Company’s operating segments is provided for the indicated periods and as of March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The segment net sales reported above represent sales to external customers.
Segment operating income, which is used in management’s evaluation of segment performance, represents net sales less all operating expenses.
Identifiable assets are those assets used by each segment in its operations.
Page 11 



The Company records a 10% mark-up on intersegment revenues.
Any intersegment profit in inventory is eliminated in consolidation.
As a result, the geographic distribution of the Company’s net sales and long-lived assets originate within North America.
Page 12 



    (b)   Calculated using the “Treasury Stock” method as if dilutive securities were exercised and the funds were used to purchase common shares at the average market price during the period.
(c)   Options to purchase 3,787,519 common shares and 1,945,348 common shares for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were not included in the computation of the three month diluted loss per share because the exercise price was greater than the average fair market value of the common shares.
Additionally, options to purchase 3,702,031 common shares and 3,086,121 common shares for the nine months ended at March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were not included in the computation of the nine month diluted loss per share because the exercise price was greater than the average fair market value of the common shares.
For the three months ended in March 31, 2019 and the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the effect of dilutive securities was not included in the calculation of diluted loss per share because there was a net loss for the period.
NOTE 5 - INVENTORIES 



The following information is provided as of the dates indicated: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



NOTE 6 - ACCRUED EXPENSES 



The following information is provided as of the dates indicated: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



NOTE 7 - GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 



The carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment.
The Company may first assess qualitative factors in order to determine if goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired.
If through the qualitative assessment it is determined that it is more likely than not that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not impaired, no further testing is required.
If it is determined more likely than not that goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are impaired, or if the Company elects not to first assess qualitative factors, the Company’s impairment testing continues with the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit using a combination of a market approach and an income (discounted cash flow) approach, at the reporting unit level.
Company management uses its judgment in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual impairment tests.
Page 13 



A sustained and significant decline in the Company’s stock price in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 led management to believe that a triggering event occurred and that an interim goodwill impairment test was required for one of the reporting units in the Lighting Segment that contains goodwill, as of December 31, 2018.
In accordance with ASU 2017-04, “Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment,” which was adopted in a prior period, the requirement to perform step 2 in the impairment test was not required.
The result of the impairment test on the reporting unit in the Lighting Segment indicated that goodwill was impaired by $20,165,000.
The Company identified its reporting units in conjunction with its annual goodwill impairment testing.
The Company has two reporting units that contain goodwill.
There is one reporting unit within the Lighting Segment and one reporting unit within the Graphics Segment.
As of March 1, 2019, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment test on the two reporting units that contain goodwill.
The preliminary goodwill impairment test on one reporting unit in the Lighting Segment passed with a business enterprise value that was $38.9 million or 54% above the carrying value of this reporting unit including goodwill.
The preliminary goodwill impairment test of the reporting unit with goodwill in the Graphics Segment passed with an estimated business enterprise value that was $3.0 million or 297% above the carrying value of the reporting unit including goodwill.
The definitive impairment test is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
It is anticipated that the results of the test will not change when the test is complete.
The following table presents information about the Company's goodwill on the dates or for the periods indicated: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The Company performed its annual review of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of March 1, 2019 and determined there was no impairment.
The preliminary indefinite-lived intangible impairment test passed with a fair market value that was $19.2 million or 462% above its carrying value.
The definitive indefinite-lived impairment test is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
It is anticipated that the results of the test will not change when the test is complete.
Page 14 



The following table presents the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by each major asset class: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Amortization expense (in thousands) for intangible assets was $691 and $691 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $2,071 and $2,071 for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Future amortization expense (in thousands) associated with these intangible assets is expected to be $2,761 in 2019, $2,687 in 2020, $2,682 in 2021, $2,460 in 2022, $2,412 in 2023, and $18,985 after 2023.
The line of credit expires in the third quarter of fiscal 2022.
Interest on the revolving line of credit is charged based upon an increment over the LIBOR rate as periodically determined, or at the bank’s base lending rate, at the Company’s option.
The increment over the LIBOR borrowing rate, as periodically determined, fluctuates between 125 and 250 basis points depending upon the ratio of indebtedness to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), as defined in the line of credit agreement.
The increment over LIBOR borrowing rate will be 200 basis points for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
The fee on the unused balance of the $75 million committed line of credit is 20 basis points.
Under the terms of this line of credit, the Company has agreed to a negative pledge of real estate assets and is required to comply with financial covenants that limit the ratio of indebtedness to EBITDA and require a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio.
As of March 31, 2019, there was $43.8 million borrowed against the line of credit, and $31.2 million was available as of that date.
Based on the terms of the line of credit and the maturity date, the debt has been classified as long term.
Page 15 



The Company is in compliance with all of its loan covenants as of March 31, 2019.
NOTE 9 - CASH DIVIDENDS 



The Company paid cash dividends of $3,882,000 and $3,845,000 in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Dividends on restricted stock units in the amount of $40,798 and $44,946 were accrued as of March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In April 2019, the Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share payable May 14, 2019 to shareholders of record as of May 6, 2019.
The indicated annual cash dividend rate is $0.20 per share.
NOTE 10 - SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



NOTE 11 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 



The Company is party to various negotiations, customer bankruptcies, and legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business.
The Company may occasionally issue a standby letter of credit in favor of third parties.
As of March 31, 2019, there were no standby letter of credit agreements.
NOTE 12 – SEVERANCE COSTS 



The Company recorded severance expense of $534,000 and $91,000 in the nine months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
This severance expense was related to reductions in staffing not related to plant restructuring.
See further discussion of restructuring expenses in Note 13.
The activity in the Company’s accrued severance liability is as follows for the periods indicated: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Of the total $1,350,000 severance reserve reported as of March 31, 2019, $644,000 has been classified as a current liability and will be paid out over the next twelve months.
The remaining $706,000 has been classified as a long-term liability.
Page 16 



NOTE 13 – RESTRUCTURING COSTS  



On October 29, 2018, the Company announced plans to close its lighting manufacturing facility in New Windsor, New York.
The closure is part of ongoing actions to align the Company’s supply chain to more cost effectively serve the changing requirements of the lighting market.
The Company will move production to its other existing facilities.
The Company will record an estimated range of restructuring costs of $0.2 million to $0.6 million mostly next quarter and up until the time the facility is ultimately sold.
Further, the Company has announced that it entered into a definitive agreement to sell the New Windsor, New York manufacturing facility for approximately $12 million in the fourth quarter which is expected to generate a book gain.
The transfer of production is expected to be completed by June 30, 2019.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company has incurred restructuring costs of $769,000 related to the closure of the New Windsor facility.
The Company also incurred $919,000 of expense to write-down inventory which is not included in the tables below.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, management approved the closure of its 12,000 square foot leased facility in Hawthorne, California.
The facility was used as a warehouse and for light assembly of light fixtures.
The Company has moved the light assembly to its Blue Ash, Ohio facility.
The restructuring charges consist primarily of transportation costs to move inventory to Blue Ash, the impairment of equipment, costs to restore the leased facility, and severance benefits.
The Company also incurred $148,000 of expense to write-down inventory which is a re-valuation of the previous estimate and which is not included in the tables below.
The following table presents information about restructuring costs for the periods indicated: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following table presents restructuring costs incurred by line item in the consolidated statement of operations in which the costs are included: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Additionally, the above tables do not include expense of $1,067,000 recorded during the nine months ended March 31, 2019 related to the write-down of inventory included as cost of sales as part of facility closures.
Page 17 



The following table presents a roll forward of the beginning and ending liability balances related to the restructuring costs: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The above table does not include fixed asset impairment and accelerated depreciation expense of $228,000 recorded in the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Refer to Note 12 for information regarding additional severance expenses that are not included in the restructuring costs identified in this footnote.
This continual estimation process often results in a change to the expected effective income tax rate for the year.
The Company has announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its New Windsor, New York facility.
The closing of the sale is expected in the fourth quarter and is expected to generate a gain.
This event was part of the calculation of the estimated annual income tax rate.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, a deferred tax asset of $4.8 million was created as a result of the impairment of goodwill in the Lighting reporting unit.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, a deferred tax asset of $10.7 million was created as a result of the impairment of goodwill in the Lighting reporting unit.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Page 18
