18



Overview



We provide mission-focused technology solutions and services for U.S. defense, intelligence community and federal civilian agencies.
Now in our 50th year, we excel in full-spectrum cyber, data collection & analytics, enterprise IT, systems engineering and software application development solutions that support national and homeland security.
On March 23, 2018, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 was signed into law.
The Act funds the government through September 30, 2018 and marks the third consecutive year of budget growth.
The U.S. GFY 2018 appropriations and U.S. GFY 2019 budget request include near term expansions of budgets for the Department of Defense aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, homeland and border security, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
However, U.S. GFY 2019 and future years funding appropriations continue to be debated in normal course by Congress with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act (BCA).
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 



The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from March 31, 2017 to March 31, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue



The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenue from new contract awards, acquisitions and growth on certain existing contracts.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 37% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
19



General and administrative expenses 



The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
Interest expense



The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 22% and 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Backlog



Backlog represents estimates that we calculate on a consistent basis.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.
Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the government.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $7.1 billion.
Our funded backlog was $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
The following table reconciles our backlog to our remaining performance obligations as disclosed in Note 3.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 (in billions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
On March 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $10.4 million.
There were $65.5 million outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018 were $419.2 million.
20



Cash Flows from (Used in) Operating Activities



Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts.
We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 69 and 68 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash used in operating activities were $18.0 million.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash flow from operating activities were $36.5 million.
The decrease in net cash flows from (used in) operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables.
Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities



For the three months ended March 31, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $9.0 million, which was primarily due to the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments and capitalized software for internal use.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017 our net cash used in investing activities was $3.4 million, which related to capital expenditures.
Cash Flows from (Used in) Financing Activities



For the three months ended March 31, 2018, our net cash flow from financing activities were $27.9 million, which were primarily due to net borrowings under on revolving credit facility and exercise of stock options partially offset by dividend payments.
For the three months ended March 31, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $6.4 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
Revolving Credit Facility



We maintain a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A., as sole administrative agent.
The credit agreement provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility, with a $75 million letter of credit sublimit and a $30 million swing line loan sublimit.
The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments.
The maturity date is August 17, 2022.
Borrowings under our credit agreement are collateralized by substantially all the assets of us and our Material Subsidiaries (as defined in the credit agreement) and bear interest at one of the following variable rates as selected by us at the time of borrowing: a London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) based rate plus market spreads (1.25% to 2.25% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio) or Bank of America's base rate plus market spreads (0.25% to 1.25% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio).
There was $65.5 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at March 31, 2018.
As of and during the three months ended March 31, 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
Capital Resources



We believe the capital resources available to us from cash on hand, our remaining capacity under our revolving credit facility, and cash from our operations are adequate to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next year.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers.
As of March 31, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn.
We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million.
We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases.
For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Our significant accounting policies for 2017 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount.
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
If a contract does not meet the criteria for recognizing revenue over time, we recognize revenue at a point in time.
We consider control to transfer when we have a present right to payment and our customer has legal title.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Updates



On January 1, 2018, we adopted the following Accounting Standards Updates (ASU):



ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under GAAP.
Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time.
It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.
The impact to revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was immaterial as a result of applying ASC 606.
ASU 2017-09, Compensation—Stock Compensation (ASC 718): Scope of Modification Accounting, provides guidance concerning which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC 718.
Specifically, an entity is to account for the effects of a modification, unless all of the following are satisfied: (1) the fair value (or calculated value or intrinsic value, if such an alternative measurement method is used) of the modified award is the same as the fair value (or calculated value or intrinsic value, if such an alternative measurement method is used) of the original award immediately before the original award is modified; (2) the vesting conditions of the modified award are the same as the vesting conditions of the original award immediately before the original award is modified; and (3) the classification of the modified award as an equity instrument or as a liability instrument is the same as the classification of the original award immediately before the original award is modified.
The current disclosure requirements in ASC 718 apply regardless of whether an entity is required to apply modification accounting under the amendments in ASU 2017-09.
The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (ASC 805)—Clarifying the Definition of a Business, clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
Under the guidance in Topic 805, there are three elements of a business: inputs, processes and outputs.
While an integrated set of assets and activities (collectively, a “set”) that is a business usually has outputs, outputs are not required to be present.
Additionally, all of the inputs and processes that a seller uses in operating a set are not required if market participants can acquire the set and continue to produce outputs.
The amendments in ASU 2017-01 provide a screen to determine when a set is not a business.
The screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
This screen reduces the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated.
Finally, the amendments in this ASU narrow the definition of the term “output” so that the term is consistent with the manner in which outputs are described in ASC 606.
The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
23



ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
This ASU addresses the following eight specific cash flow issues: Debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs; settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments or other debt instruments with coupon interest rates that are insignificant in relation to the effective interest rate of the borrowing; contingent consideration payments made after a business combination; proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims; proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies (including bank-owned life insurance policies); distributions received from equity method investees; beneficial interests in securitization transactions; and separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle.
We applied the equity method of accounting for applicable investments.
We made an accounting policy election to classify distributions received from equity method investees using the cumulative earnings approach.
Distributions received are considered returns on investment and classified as cash inflows from operating activities, unless the investor’s cumulative distributions received less distributions received in prior periods that were determined to be returns of investment exceed cumulative equity in earnings recognized by the investor (as adjusted for amortization of basis differences).
When such an excess occurs, the current-period distribution up to this excess is considered a return of investment and should be classified as cash inflows from investing.
The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted ASUs



On January 25, 2018, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued ASU 2018-01, Leases (Topic 842): Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842, which seeks to clarify the application of the new lease requirements in ASC 842, Leases, to land easements, commonly referred to as rights of way.
This ASU addresses stakeholders’ concerns by providing an optional transition practical expedient to not evaluate under ASC 842, Leases, existing or expired land easements that were not previously accounted for as leases under the current guidance in ASC 840, Leases.
An entity that elects the practical expedient should evaluate new or modified land easements under ASC 842 beginning with the date on which the entity adopts the standard.
An entity that does not elect the practical expedient should evaluate all existing or expired land easements in connection with the adoption of the new lease requirements in ASC 842 to assess whether they meet the definition of a lease.
On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02—Leases (Topic 842).
The amendments in this ASU create Topic 842, Leases, and supersede the leases requirements in Topic 840, Leases.
Topic 842 specifies the accounting for leases.
These ASUs are effective for public entities for annual periods after December 15, 2018, and interim periods therein.
Early adoption is permitted for all entities.
We are currently evaluating methods of adoption as well as the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
On February 14, 2018, the FASB has issued ASU 2018-02, Income Statement—Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which finalizes Proposed ASU No.
Specifically, this ASU allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA, eliminating the stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA, and improving the usefulness of information reported to financial statement users.
The amendments are effective for annual periods, and for interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, for reporting periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
On January 26, 2017, the FASB has issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which simplifies the manner in which an entity determines the amount of a goodwill impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.
In computing the implied fair value of goodwill under Step 2, an entity, prior to the amendments in ASU 2017-04, had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities, including unrecognized assets and liabilities, in accordance with the procedure that would be required in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.
Under the amendments in this ASU, an entity should (1) perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and (2) recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying 



 24



amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, with the understanding that the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Public entities should adopt the amendments in this ASU prospectively for their annual, or any interim periods, in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted for all entities for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017.
We will evaluate adopting when we perform our goodwill impairment test in 2018.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
