20



Overview



We provide mission-focused technology solutions and services for U.S. defense, intelligence community and federal civilian agencies.
Now in our 50th year, we excel in full-spectrum cyber, data collection & analytics, enterprise IT, systems engineering and software application development solutions that support national and homeland security.
On September 28, 2018, the President signed into law appropriations funding approximately 75% of the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense, through U.S. Government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
However, a number of federal civilian agencies, including the Departments of Homeland Security and State, have been funded under a Continuing Resolution (CR) at 2018 funding levels through early December 2018.
Appropriations for the Department of Defense include near term expansions that aligned with the Administration's stated priorities in dealing with significant global threats, readiness and force structure needs within the military, diplomatic, and cyber aggressions by both state and non-state actors.
For agencies operating under the CR, funding appropriations are expected to be debated by Congress after the midterm elections.
We expect future appropriations to be debated with the consideration of policy priorities, national budget deficits, debt ceilings and the Budget Control Act.
We recommend that you read this discussion and analysis in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to the Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 



The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from September 30, 2017 to September 30, 2018.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
21



Cost of services 



The increase in cost of services was primarily due to increases in revenue.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 46% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 48% for the same period in 2017.
As a percentage of revenues, other direct costs, which include subcontractors and third party equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 39% for the three months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 38% for the same period in 2017.
Interest expense



The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 24% and 35% for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 



The following table sets forth certain items from our condensed consolidated statements of income and the relative percentage that certain items of expenses and earnings bear to revenue, as well as the period-to-period change from September 30, 2017 to September 30, 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 22



Revenue



The primary driver of our increase in revenue relates to revenues from new contract awards and growth on existing contracts, including higher levels of material procurements, and acquisitions.
These increases were offset by contracts and tasks that ended and reduced scope of work on some contracts.
As a percentage of revenue, direct labor costs were 48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 49% for the same period in 2017.
As a percentage of revenue, other direct costs, which include subcontractors as well as equipment and materials used in the performance of our contracts, was 38% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018, compared to 37% for the same period in 2017.
General and administrative expenses 



The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase in bid and proposal spending, amortization of acquired intangibles and expenditures to support infrastructure.
Interest expense



The increase in interest expense was due to increased borrowings under our credit facility to fund the acquisition of InfoZen in the fourth quarter of 2017 and the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT services contract.
For additional information on the acquisition of InfoZen, see Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item I.
It is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given year, but are not consistent from year-to-year.
Our effective income tax rates were 25% and 36% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Backlog



Backlog represents estimates that we calculate on a consistent basis.
We define funded backlog to be the portion of backlog for which funding currently is appropriated and allocated to the contract by the purchasing agency or otherwise authorized for payment by the customer upon completion of a specific portion of work.
A variety of circumstances or events may cause changes in the amount of our backlog and funded backlog, including the execution of new contracts, the extension of existing contracts, the non-renewal or completion of current contracts, the early termination of contracts, and adjustment to estimates for previously included contracts.
Changes in the amount of our funded backlog also are affected by the funding cycles of the U.S. government.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, our backlog was $8.3 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively.
Our funded backlog was $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
23



The following table reconciles our backlog to our remaining performance obligations as disclosed in Note 3 to our condensed consolidated financial statements in Item 1 (in billions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Liquidity and Capital Resources



Our primary liquidity needs relate to managing working capital, financing acquisitions, making cash dividend payments, purchasing property and equipment and investing in capital software.
Our primary sources of liquidity are cash from operating activities and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
On September 30, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance was $15.0 million.
There were no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018.
The maximum available borrowings under our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018 were $484.7 million.
As of September 30, 2018, we were contingently liable under letters of credit totaling $15.3 million, which reduces our availability to borrow under our revolving credit facility.
Cash Flows From (Used In) Operating Activities



Our operating cash flow is primarily affected by our ability to invoice and collect from our customers in a timely manner, our management of vendor payments and the overall profitability of our contracts.
We bill most of our customers monthly after services are rendered.
Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding were 67 and 68 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, our net cash from operating activities was $94.2 million and $115.2 million, respectively.
The decrease in net cash flows from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in 2017 was primarily due to the timing of receivables collection.
Cash Flows From (Used In) Investing Activities



For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 our net cash used in investing activities was $36.8 million, which was primarily used for the purchase of equipment to support a managed IT service contract, infrastructure investments, closing working capital payment related to the purchase of InfoZen and capitalized software for internal use.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017 our net cash used in investing activities was $11.6 million, which was used for capital expenditures.
For the remainder of the year, we expect similar levels of capital expenditures, as compared to the first nine months of the year, for the purchase of equipment to support our infrastructure and managed IT service contracts, with the potential for additional increases in future years.
Cash Flows From (Used in) Financing Activities



For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, our net cash used in financing activities was $51.9 million, which was primarily due to repayment of borrowings under revolving credit facility dividend payments.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2017, our net cash used in financing activities were $19.9 million, which were primarily due to dividends paid partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options.
Revolving Credit Facility



We maintain a credit agreement with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A., as sole administrative agent.
The credit agreement provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility, with a $75 million letter of credit sublimit and a $30 million swing line loan sublimit.
The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments.
The maturity date is August 17, 2022.
Borrowings under our credit agreement are collateralized by substantially all the assets of us and our Material Subsidiaries (as defined in the credit agreement) and bear interest at one of the following variable rates as selected by us at the time of borrowing: a London Interbank Offer Rate based rate plus market spreads (1.25% to 2.25% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio) or Bank of America's base rate plus market spreads (0.25% to 1.25% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio).
There were no outstanding borrowings on our revolving credit facility at September 30, 2018.
As of and during the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
We anticipate financing our internal and external growth through cash from operating activities, borrowings under our revolving credit facility or other debt and issuance of equity.
Under our investment policy, we manage our investments in accordance with the priorities of maintaining the safety of our principal, maintaining the liquidity of our investments, maximizing the yield on our investments and investing our cash to the fullest extent possible.
Our investment policy provides that no investment security can have a final maturity that exceeds six months and that the weighted average maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 60 days.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks and short-term investments with maturity dates of three months or less at the date of purchase.
Dividend



During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.25 per share and $0.21 per share, respectively, on both classes of our common stock.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements



In the ordinary course of business, we use letters of credit issued to satisfy certain contractual terms with our customers.
As of September 30, 2018, $15.3 million in letters of credit were issued but undrawn.
We have an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
This performance bond is guaranteed by a letter of credit in the amount of $15.2 million.
We have off-balance sheet arrangements related to operating leases.
For a description of our operating leases, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
Our significant accounting policies for 2017 are described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, previously filed with the SEC.
At contract inception, we identify the distinct goods or services promised in the contract, referred to as performance obligations.
Then we determine the transaction price for the contract; the consideration to which we can expect in exchange for the promised goods or services in the contract.
The transaction price can be a fixed or variable amount.
It is common for our contracts to contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled.
The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price for each distinct good or service promised in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For our U.S. government contracts, this continuous transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the contract that allow the U.S. government to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work in process.
When control is transferred over time, revenue is recognized based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation.
Based on the nature of the products and services provided in the contract, we use our judgment to determine if an input measure or output measure best depicts the transfer of control over time.
For services contracts, we typically satisfy our performance obligations as services are rendered and use a contract cost-based input method to measure progress.
Contract costs include labor, material and allocable indirect expenses.
For stand-ready service contracts, a time-elapsed output method is used to measure progress, and revenue is recognized straight-line over the term of the contract.
Determining a measure of progress and when control transfers requires us to make judgments that affect the timing of when revenue is recognized.
Essentially all of our contracts satisfy their performance obligations over time.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements.
Contract modifications impact performance obligation when the modification either creates new or changes the existing enforceable rights and obligations.
The effect of a contract modification on the transaction price and our measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is recognized as an adjustment to revenue under the cumulative catch-up method.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts in the period identified.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards Updates



On January 1, 2018, we adopted the following Accounting Standards Updates (ASU):



ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) supersedes existing revenue recognition guidance, including ASC 605-35, Revenue Recognition - Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts.
ASU 2014-09 outlines a single set of comprehensive principles for recognizing revenue under GAAP.
Among other things, it requires companies to identify contractual performance obligations and determine whether revenue should be recognized at a point in time or over time.
It also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
We elected to adopt using the modified retrospective method that applied to those contracts that were not substantially completed as of January 1, 2018.
We recognized the cumulative effect of adopting ASC 606 as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of $0.8 million, with the impact primarily related to fixed-price contracts.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and reported in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition.
Revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $3.3 million as a result of applying ASC 606.
ASU 2017-09, Compensation—Stock Compensation (ASC 718): Scope of Modification Accounting, provides guidance concerning which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC 718.
Specifically, an entity is to account for the effects of a modification, unless all of the following are satisfied: (1) the fair value (or calculated value or intrinsic value, if such an alternative measurement method is used) of the modified award is the same as the fair value (or calculated value or intrinsic value, if such an alternative measurement method is used) of the original award immediately before the original award is modified; (2) the vesting conditions of the modified award are the same as the vesting conditions of the original award immediately before the original award is modified; and (3) the classification of the modified award as an equity instrument or as a liability instrument is the same as the classification of the original award immediately before the original award is modified.
The current disclosure requirements in ASC 718 apply regardless of whether 



 26



an entity is required to apply modification accounting under the amendments in ASU 2017-09.
The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
ASU 2017-01, Business Combinations (ASC 805)—Clarifying the Definition of a Business, clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses.
Under the guidance in Topic 805, there are three elements of a business: inputs, processes and outputs.
While an integrated set of assets and activities (collectively, a “set”) that is a business usually has outputs, outputs are not required to be present.
Additionally, all of the inputs and processes that a seller uses in operating a set are not required if market participants can acquire the set and continue to produce outputs.
The amendments in ASU 2017-01 provide a screen to determine when a set is not a business.
The screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business.
This screen reduces the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated.
Finally, the amendments in this ASU narrow the definition of the term “output” so that the term is consistent with the manner in which outputs are described in ASC 606.
The adoption of this ASU did not have an effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
This ASU addresses the following eight specific cash flow issues: Debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs; settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments or other debt instruments with coupon interest rates that are insignificant in relation to the effective interest rate of the borrowing; contingent consideration payments made after a business combination; proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims; proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies (including bank-owned life insurance policies); distributions received from equity method investees; beneficial interests in securitization transactions; and separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle.
We applied the equity method of accounting for applicable investments.
We made an accounting policy election to classify distributions received from equity method investees using the cumulative earnings approach.
Distributions received are considered returns on investment and classified as cash inflows from operating activities, unless the investor’s cumulative distributions received less distributions received in prior periods that were determined to be returns of investment exceed cumulative equity in earnings recognized by the investor (as adjusted for amortization of basis differences).
When such an excess occurs, the current-period distribution up to this excess is considered a return of investment and should be classified as cash inflows from investing.
Due to the adoption of ASU 2016-15, we classified proceeds from corporate life insurance for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 as investing activities on our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted ASUs



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
ASU 2016-02 supersedes existing lease guidance, including ASC 840 - Leases.
Among other things, ASU 2016-02 requires recognition of a right-of-use asset and liability for future lease payments for contracts that meet the definition of a lease and requires disclosure of certain information about leasing arrangements.
ASU 2016-02 will be effective January 1, 2019, although early adoption is permitted, and may be adopted using a modified retrospective transition method that applies the new lease requirements at the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements.
The FASB has proposed a change that would allow a company to elect an optional transition method that applies the new lease requirements through a cumulative-effect adjustment in the period of adoption.
We expect to adopt the standard on January 1, 2019.
We are currently evaluating methods of adoption as well as the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
The FASB has issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, finalizing Proposed ASU 2015-350 of the same name as part of its disclosure framework project, which focuses on improving the effectiveness of disclosures in the notes to financial statements by facilitating clear communication of the information required by GAAP that is most important to users of each entity’s financial statements.
The amendments in ASU 2018-13 modify the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements in Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement.
Specifically, the amendments in this ASU remove disclosure requirements in Topic 820 related to (1) the amount of, and reasons for, transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; (2) the policy for timing of transfers between levels; (3) the valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements; and (4) for non-public entities, the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in earnings for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period.
The ASU also modifies disclosure requirements such that (1) in place of a rollforward for Level 3 fair value measurements, a non-public entity is required to disclose transfers into and out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and purchases and issues of Level 3 assets and liabilities; (2) for investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value, an entity is required to disclose 



 27



the timing of liquidation of an investee’s assets and the date that restrictions from redemption might lapse, only if the investee has communicated the timing to the entity or announced the timing publicly; and (3) it is clear that the measurement uncertainty disclosure is to communicate information about the uncertainty in measurement as of the reporting date.
Additionally, the ASU adds disclosure requirements for public entities about (1) the changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period, and (2) the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements.
The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and for interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019.
The amendments regarding changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption.
All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date.
Note that early application is permitted for all entities; moreover, an entity is allowed to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of this ASU and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date.
As part of its disclosure framework project, the FASB has issued ASU 2018-14, Compensation—Retirement Benefits—Defined Benefit Plans—General (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which finalizes Proposed ASU 2016-210 of the same name.
The amendments in this ASU modify the disclosure requirements for employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans.
Finally, the amendments in this ASU clarify disclosure requirements in Paragraph 715-20-50-3.
The amendments are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020.
We are currently evaluating the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
The FASB has issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other—Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force), which finalizes Proposed ASU No.
In fact, ASU 2018-15 aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
Accordingly, the amendments in this ASU require an entity (customer) in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract to follow the guidance in Subtopic 350-40, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other—Internal-Use Software, in order to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as an asset related to the service contract and which costs to expense.
Additionally, the amendments in this ASU require the entity (customer) to expense the capitalized implementation costs of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract over the term of the hosting arrangement (i.e., the noncancellable period of the arrangement plus periods covered by (1) an option to extend the arrangement if the customer is reasonably certain to exercise that option, (2) an option to terminate the arrangement if the customer is reasonably certain not to exercise the termination option, and (3) an option to extend (or not to terminate) the arrangement in which exercise of the option is in the control of the vendor.
The amendments in this ASU also require the entity to present the expense related to the capitalized implementation costs in the same line item in the statement of income as the fees associated with the hosting element (service) of the arrangement, and to classify payments for capitalized implementation costs in the statement of cash flows in the same manner as payments made for fees associated with the hosting element.
Note that the accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments in this ASU.
The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and for interim periods within those fiscal years.
We are currently evaluating methods of adoption as well as the effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
The FASB has issued ASU 2018-02, Income Statement—Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, which finalizes Proposed ASU No.
Specifically, this ASU allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA, eliminating 



 28



the stranded tax effects resulting from the TCJA, and improving the usefulness of information reported to financial statement users.
The amendments are effective for annual periods, and for interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period, for reporting periods for which financial statements have not yet been issued.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
The FASB has issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which simplifies the manner in which an entity determines the amount of a goodwill impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.
In computing the implied fair value of goodwill under Step 2, an entity, prior to the amendments in ASU 2017-04, had to perform procedures to determine the fair value at the impairment testing date of its assets and liabilities, including unrecognized assets and liabilities, in accordance with the procedure that would be required in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination.
Under the amendments in this ASU, an entity should (1) perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount and (2) recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, with the understanding that the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
Public entities should adopt the amendments in this ASU prospectively for their annual, or any interim periods, in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted for all entities for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017.
We will evaluate adopting when we perform our goodwill impairment test in 2018.
We do not expect the adoption of this ASU to have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.
