Item 1.Financial Statements



MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In Thousands Except Share and Per Share Amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
3



MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



(In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
4



MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(In Thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
5



MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 



(In Thousands) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
6



MANTECH INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(In Thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
7



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



June 30, 2019 



UNAUDITED



1.
Description of the Business



ManTech International Corporation (depending on the circumstances, “ManTech” “Company” “we” “our” “ours” or “us”) provides mission-focused technology solutions and services for U.S. defense, intelligence community and federal civilian agencies.
In business for more than 50 years, we excel in full-spectrum cyber, data collection & analytics, enterprise information technology (IT), and systems and software engineering solutions that support national and homeland security.
2.
Basis of Presentation



The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
3.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers



On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts that were not substantially complete as of January 1, 2018.
ASC 606 outlines a five-step model whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within the contract are satisfied.
ASC 606 also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition.
Substantially all of our revenue is derived from services and solutions provided to the U.S. government or to prime contractors supporting the U.S. government, including services by our employees and our subcontractors, and solutions that include third-party hardware and software that we purchase and integrate as a part of our overall solutions.
We provide our services and solutions under three types of contracts: cost-reimbursable, fixed-price and time-and-materials.
Fixed-price contracts may include either a product delivery or specific service performance over a defined period.
We typically recognize revenue for time and material contracts under the "right to invoice" model.
For contracts that do not meet the criteria to measure performance as a right to invoice under the series guidance, we utilize an Estimate at Completion process to measure progress toward completion.
We typically estimate progress towards completion based on cost incurred or direct labor incurred.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $3.5 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, the aggregate impact of adjustments in contract estimates increased our revenue by $5.6 million and $5.8 million, respectively.
8



We have one reportable segment.
Offices or divisions within an agency or department of the U.S. government may directly, or through a prime contractor, use our services as a separate customer as long as the customer has independent decision-making and contracting authority within its organization.
The following tables disclose revenue (in thousands) by contract type, customer, prime or subcontractor and geography for the periods presented.
We have one contract which accounts for 11% of our accounts receivable 



 9



balance.
The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our estimate for exposure due to compliance, contractual issues and bad debts related to prime contractors.
The following table discloses contract liabilities (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the three months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $4.5 million.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, the amount of revenue that was included in the opening contract liabilities balance was $22.5 million.
The remaining performance obligation as of June 30, 2019 is $2.7 billion.
The following table discloses when we expect to recognize the remaining performance obligation as revenue (in billions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



4.
Leases



The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASC 842, Leases, to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by requiring the recognition of right of use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet.
Most prominent among the changes in ASC 842 is the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
We are also required to recognize and measure leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented using a modified retrospective approach, with certain practical expedients available.
We elected to adopt ASC 842 on January 1, 2019, resulting in us recording operating lease liabilities of $129.6 million and operating lease right of use assets of $118.7 million.
We elected the practical expedient to recognize the lease payments related to short-term leases as profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments are incurred.
We also elected the following transition related practical expedients: not to reassess whether expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, not to reassess lease classification as determined under ASC 840 and not to reassess initial direct costs from any existing lease.
We elected the practical expedient as an accounting election not to separate nonlease components from lease components on all classes of underlying assets.
Our leases include nonlease components such as common area maintenance (CAM), utilities and operating expenses.
Additionally, we implemented internal controls and key system functionality to enable the preparation of financial information upon adoption.
The most significant impact was the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while our accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
We determine if a contract is or contains a lease at inception.
In making this determination, we consider all relevant facts and circumstances.
We reassess whether a contract is or contains a lease only if the terms and conditions of the contract are changed.
We account for lease components and nonlease components associated with a lease as a single lease component.
Operating leases are included in Operating lease ROU assets, Operating lease liabilities—current and Operating lease liabilities—long term on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Our ROU asset is recognized as the lease liability, any initial indirect costs and any prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives.
Our lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
Our variable lease payments are excluded in measuring ROU assets and lease liabilities because they do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
We exclude lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred from our lease payments.
For operating leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability for each period at the present value of any remaining lease payments, discounted by using the rate determined at lease commencement.
In our condensed consolidated statement of income, we recognize a single operating lease expense calculated on a straight-line basis over the remaining lease term.
The depreciation of the ROU asset increases each year as a result of the declining lease liability balance.
Variable lease payments are not recognized in the measurement of the lease liability - they are recognized in the period in which the related obligation has been incurred.
For finance leases, after lease commencement, we measure our lease liability by using the effective interest rate method.
In each period, the lease liability will be increased to reflect the interest that is accrued on the related lease liability by using the appropriate discount rate, offset by a decrease in the lease liability resulting from the periodic lease payments.
We recognize the ROU asset at cost, reduced by any accumulated depreciation.
The ROU asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis.
Together, the interest expense and depreciation expense result in a front-loaded expense profile.
We have operating and finance leases for real estate, transportation vehicles and equipment.
Our variable lease payments do not depend on an index or a rate or are not in substance fixed payments.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 0.2 years to 11 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 14 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
Our transportation vehicles and equipment leases include a residual value guarantee, which is a guarantee made to the lessor that the value of the underlying asset returned to the lessor at the end of the lease will be at least a specific amount.
We sublease some of our real estate lease space, resulting in sublease income of $6 thousand and $29 thousand as of the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively.
We do not have any leases that have not yet commenced due to construction or design of the underlying asset.
We recognize payments related to short-term leases (less than one year) as profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term and variable lease payments in the period in which the obligation for those payments were incurred.
As such, our short-term lease expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.4 million and $2.8 million, respectively.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, we incurred variable lease costs of $0.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively.
The balance sheet information related to our leases was as follows (dollars in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 11



The components of lease expense were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The weighted average information related to leases was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases as of June 30, 2019 were as follows (in thousands): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



5.
Acquisitions



Kforce Government Solutions (KGS)—On April 1, 2019, we completed the acquisition of KGS.
KGS was a wholly owned subsidiary of the publicly traded commercial technology and staffing company KForce, Inc.
The acquisition was completed through an equity purchase agreement dated February 28, 2019, by and among Kforce Government Solutions, Inc and other beneficiaries and ManTech International Corporation.
We funded the acquisition with cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility.
KGS provides services IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics - most notably in the healthcare IT market.
This acquisition will expand our presence with important customers such as the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA).
The purchase price of $114.6 million, which includes the finalized working capital adjustment, was preliminarily allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition.
As we are still in the process of reviewing the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the purchase price allocation for KGS is not complete as of June 30, 2019.
Recognition of goodwill is largely attributed to the value paid for KGS's capabilities to support customers in IT solutions, transformation and management consulting and data analytics.
The components of other intangible assets associated with the acquisition were customer relationships and backlog valued at $33.1 million and $1.6 million, respectively.
Customer contracts and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with KGS's existing customers.
Customer relationships are amortized using the pattern of benefits method over their estimated useful lives of approximately 20 years.
Backlog is amortized straight-line over its estimated useful life of 1 year.
The weighted-average amortization period for the intangible assets is 19 years.
The following table represents the preliminary purchase price allocation for KGS (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6.
Under that method, basic and diluted earnings per share data are presented for each class of common stock.
In applying the two-class method, we determined that undistributed earnings should be allocated equally on a per share basis between Class A and Class B common stock.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we declared and paid quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.27 per share and $0.25 per share, respectively, on both classes of common stock.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period.
Shares issued during the period and shares reacquired during the period are weighted for the portion of the period in which the shares were outstanding.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, options to purchase 496,859 shares and 280,833 shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' effect would have been anti-dilutive.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 144,585 shares and 229,191 shares, respectively, issued from the exercise of stock options.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 there were 72,493 shares and 86,233 shares, respectively, issued from the vesting of restricted stock units.
7.
Property and Equipment



Major classes of property and equipment are summarized as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 14



Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $6.2 million and $6.8 million, respectively.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property and equipment for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $12.5 million and $12.7 million, respectively.
8.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets



The change in the carrying amount of goodwill during the year ended December 31, 2018 and six months ended June 30, 2019 are as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other intangible assets consisted of the following (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense relating to intangible assets for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $6.1 million and $6.4 million, respectively.
Amortization expense relating to intangible assets for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 was $11.9 million and $13.5 million, respectively.
Debt



Revolving Credit Facility—We maintain a credit facility with a syndicate of lenders led by Bank of America, N.A, as sole administrative agent.
The credit agreement provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility, with a $75 million letter of credit sublimit and a $30 million swing line loan sublimit.
The credit agreement also includes an accordion feature that permits us to arrange with the lenders for the provision of additional commitments.
The maturity date is August 17, 2022.
Borrowings under our credit agreement are collateralized by substantially all of our assets and those of our Material Subsidiaries (as defined in the credit agreement) and bear interest at one of the following variable rates as selected by us at the time of borrowing: a London Interbank Offer Rate base rate plus market-rate spreads (1.25% to 2.25% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio) or Bank of America's base rate plus market spreads (0.25% to 1.25% based on our consolidated total leverage ratio).
15



The terms of the credit agreement permit prepayment and termination of the loan commitments at any time, subject to certain conditions.
The credit agreement requires us to comply with specified financial covenants, including the maintenance of certain leverage ratios and a certain consolidated coverage ratio.
As of and during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we were in compliance with the financial covenants under the credit agreement.
There was $43.5 million and $7.5 million outstanding on our revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The maximum available borrowing under the revolving credit facility at June 30, 2019 was $448.8 million.
10.
Commitments and Contingencies



Contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts, are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements and, from time-to-time, agencies of the U.S. government, in the ordinary course of business, investigate whether our operations are conducted in accordance with these requirements and the terms of the relevant contracts.
Management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses that may be experienced from any investigation of which it is aware.
Management believes it has adequately reserved for any losses that may be experienced from legal proceedings, claims and disputes and pending litigations of which it is aware.
An officer of our Company is a party to a pending arbitration proceeding with a former employer that relates to certain breach of a contract claim.
Pursuant to applicable accounting standards, we have determined that it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome could cause us to incur a liability/loss under these indemnification arrangements.
We have $7.7 million outstanding on our letter of credit, of which $7.6 million is related to an outstanding performance bond in connection with a contract between ManTech MENA, LLC and Jadwalean International Operations and Management Company to fulfill technical support requirements for the Royal Saudi Air Force.
11.
Stock-Based Compensation



Our 2016 Management Incentive Plan (the Plan) was designed to attract, retain and motivate key employees.
The types of awards available under the Plan include, among others, stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units (RSUs).
Equity awards granted under the Plan are settled in shares of Class A common stock.
At the beginning of each year, the Plan provides that the number of shares available for issuance automatically increases by an amount equal to 1.5% of the total number of shares of Class A and Class B common stock outstanding on December 31st of the previous year.
Through June 30, 2019, the Board of Directors has authorized the issuance of up to 15,148,321 shares under this Plan.
The Plan expires in March 2026.
The Plan is administered by the compensation committee of our Board of Directors, along with its delegates.
Subject to the express provisions of the Plan, the committee has the Board of Directors’ authority to administer and interpret the Plan, including the discretion to determine the exercise price, vesting schedule, contractual life and the number of shares to be issued.
16



Stock Compensation Expense—For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $1.9 million and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation expense.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $3.2 million and $2.2 million of stock-based compensation expense.
No compensation expense of employees with stock awards, including stock-based compensation expense, was capitalized during the periods.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.5) million and $(0.2) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we recorded $(0.7) million and $(1.7) million, respectively, to income tax expense (benefit) related to the exercise of stock options, vested cancellations and the vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units.
We typically issue options that vest over three years in equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
Under the terms of the Plan, the contractual life of the option grants may not exceed eight years.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, we issued options that expire five years from the date of grant.
Fair Value Determination—We have used the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model to determine the fair value of our awards on the date of grant.
We will reconsider the use of the Black-Scholes-Merton model if additional information becomes available in the future that indicates another model would be more appropriate or if grants issued in future periods have characteristics that cannot be reasonably estimated under this model.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury strips was used to extrapolate a forward-yield curve.
This “term structure” of future interest rates was then input into a numeric model to provide the equivalent risk-free rate to be used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model based on the expected term of the underlying grants.
Option grants that vested during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018 had a combined fair value of $1.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
17



The following table summarizes stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2018 and the six months ended June 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes non-vested stock options for the six months ended June 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested awards was $6.1 million as of June 30, 2019, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2 years.
Restricted Stock—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock.
A restricted stock award is an issuance of shares that cannot be sold or transferred by the recipient until the vesting period lapses.
Restricted stock issued to members of our Board of Directors vest on the one year anniversary of the grant date.
The related compensation expense is recognized over the service period and is based on the grant date fair value of the stock.
The grant date fair value of the restricted stock is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Activity— The following table summarizes the restricted stock activity during the year ended December 31, 2018 and the six months ended June 30, 2019.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 18



RSUs—Under the Plan, we have issued restricted stock units (RSUs).
RSUs are not actual shares, but rather a right to receive shares in the future.
The shares are not issued and the employee cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest.
Employees who are granted RSUs do not receive dividend payments during the vesting period.
Performance-based RSUs result in the delivery of shares only if (a) performance criteria is met and (b) the employee remains employed, in good standing, through the date of the performance period.
Time-based RSUs vest in one-third increments on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant.
The grant date fair value of the RSUs is equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the grant date less the present value of dividends expected to be awarded during the service period.
We recognize the grant date fair value of RSUs of shares we expect to issue as compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period.
RSU Activity—For performance-based RSUs that vested in 2019 and 2018, each RSU awarded resulted in the issuance of 1.5 shares, which were issued net of applicable payroll tax withholdings.
The following table summarizes the non-vested RSU activity during the year ended December 31, 2018 and the six months ended June 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 19
