Item 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



As of the end of the period covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as required by paragraph (b) of Rule 13a-15 or Rule 15d-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), we evaluated under the supervision of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management.
Our disclosure controls and procedures include components of our internal control over financial reporting.
Management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is expressed at the level of reasonable assurance because a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met.
Additionally, our controls did not operate to validate the completeness and accuracy of information used in the execution of certain key tax controls.
The errors arising from the underlying deficiencies are not material to the financial statements reported in any interim or annual period and therefore, did not result in a revision to previously filed financial statements.
However, the control deficiencies could result in a failure to timely prevent or detect misstatements of the aforementioned accounts and disclosures that could be material to the annual or interim consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, our management has concluded that the deficiencies, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we also identified deficiencies in the design of our internal control over financial reporting as our management determined that there were not sufficient controls to prevent, detect and respond to unauthorized 



51

access to our IT systems in a timely manner.
Network authentication, segmentation and monitoring were in place, but were not sufficiently designed to address changes in the current risk environment.
Our management has concluded that these deficiencies, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting.
Remediation Plans and Other Information



As previously described in Part II, Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we began implementing a remediation plan to address the foregoing material weaknesses.
We expect the remediation of these material weaknesses to be completed by the end of fiscal 2020.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting



During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we transitioned certain of Microsemi's processes to our internal control processes and we expect to transition more of such processes throughout the remainder of fiscal 2020.
In connection with the identified material weaknesses related to accounting for income taxes and to IT system access, we have taken steps to remediate the material weaknesses as described above.
52
