Item 2.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following:



•The effects that uncertain global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations;



•The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines and modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines;



•Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines;



•The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin;



•The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers;



•The impact of trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, including those impacting China;



•Our expectation that in the future we will acquire additional businesses that we believe will complement our existing businesses;



•Our expectation that in the future we will enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies;



•The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter, including the impact of our product lead times;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us;



•Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel;



•Anticipating increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances in our products;



•Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base;



•The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities;



•Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product lines and the effect of such an increase;



•Our belief that our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs;



•The impact of any supply disruption we may experience;



•Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs;



•That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions; 



•That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies;



•Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields;



•Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products;



•The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations;



•Our anticipated level of capital expenditures;



•Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends;



•The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them;



•The impact of seasonality on our business;



35

•Our belief that our IT system compromise has not had a material adverse effect on our business or resulted in any material damage to us;



•Our expectation that we will continue to be the target of attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our IT systems;



•The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards;



•That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss;



•The recoverability of our deferred tax assets;



•The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate; 



•Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our overall tax expense or effective tax rate;



•Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements are reasonable;



•Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis;



•Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation;



•The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims or indemnification claims;



•The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our income and/or cash flows;



•The effect of fluctuations in currency rates;



•That we could determine to repatriate some of our offshore earnings in future periods to fund stockholder dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions or other corporate activities;



•Our intention to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of our debentures in cash;



•Our intention to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts.
•Changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings;



•Our belief that the effect the new tax laws will have on low-taxed income of foreign subsidiaries will have the most significant, adverse impact;



•Our intent to maintain a high-quality investment portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield; and



•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update the information contained in any forward-looking statement.
Introduction



The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.
We then discuss our Results of Operations for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources," and "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements."
36

Acquisition of Microsemi



On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of Microchip, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.23 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion of loans under our revolving line of credit (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion of term loans ("Term Loan Facility") provided under our amended and restated Credit Agreement, and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in costs related to the acquisition.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
Our primary reason for this acquisition was to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market.
For further details, see the discussion in Note 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls



As discussed in Item 4 “Controls and Procedures” in this report on Form 10-Q, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to accounting for income taxes and we also identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to IT system access.
We are in the process of remediating the material weaknesses, but our efforts may not be successful.
For additional information, refer to Item 4 "Controls and Procedures."
IT System Compromise



As reported in our March 31, 2019 Form 10-K, we learned of an ongoing compromise of our computer networks by what is believed to be sophisticated hackers.
We engaged experienced legal counsel and a leading forensic investigatory firm with experience in such matters.
We have taken steps to identify malicious activity on our network including a compromise of our network and, in May 2019, we began implementing a containment plan.
We are continuing to evaluate the effectiveness of the containment plan and the amount and content of the information that was compromised and to implement additional remedial actions.
However, until we complete our evaluation of the amount and type of data that was compromised, there can be no assurance as to what the impact of this IT system compromise will be.
Strategy



Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontrollers, 32-bit microprocessors, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, a broad spectrum of high-performance linear, mixed-signal, power management, thermal management, discrete diodes and MOSFETS, radio frequency (RF), timing, timing systems, safety, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity devices, as well as Serial Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM), Serial Flash memories, Parallel Flash memories, Serial Electrically Erasable Random Access Memory (EERAM) and Serial Static Random Access Memory (SRAM).
We also license Flash-IP solutions that are incorporated in a broad range of products.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.
Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin.
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products.
While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGAs, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries.
We market and sell our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors.
Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.
We believe that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.
Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia.
We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia.
We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market.
Many of our client engagement managers (CEMs), embedded system engineers (ESEs), and sales management personnel have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment.
We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products.
The primary mission of our ESE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for CEMs and distributor sales teams.
ESEs also frequently conduct technical seminars for our customers in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, share-based compensation, inventories, income taxes, senior and junior 



38

subordinated convertible debt and contingencies.
We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.
We apply the following five-step approach to determine the timing and amount of revenue recognition: (1) identify the contract with the customer, (2) identify performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Sales to distributors do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606), until the distributor has sent in a purchase order, we have acknowledged the order, we have deemed the collectability of the consideration to be probable, and legally enforceable rights and obligations have been created; this generally occurs 30 days prior to the estimated ship date.
As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we offer price concessions and stock rotation rights to many of our distributors.
As these are forms of variable consideration, we estimate the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled using recent historical data and applying the expected value method.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with distributors is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the distributor.
Sales to direct customers usually do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by ASC 606, until shipment of the product occurs.
Generally, the transaction price associated with contracts with direct customers is set at the standalone selling price and is not variable.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with direct customers is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer.
Revenue generated from our licensees is governed by licensing agreements.
The final transaction price is determined by multiplying the usage of the license by the royalty, which is fixed in the licensing agreement.
Revenue is recognized as usage of the license occurs.
Business Combinations



All of our business combinations are accounted for at fair value under the acquisition method of accounting.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, (i) acquisition-related costs, except for those costs incurred to issue debt or equity securities, will be expensed in the period incurred; (ii) non-controlling interests will be valued at fair value at the acquisition date; (iii) in-process research and development will be recorded at fair value as an intangible asset at the acquisition date and amortized once the technology reaches technological feasibility; (iv) restructuring costs associated with a business combination will be expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and (v) changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date will be recognized through income tax expense.
The measurement of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires significant judgment.
The valuation of intangible assets, in particular, requires that we use valuation techniques such as the income approach.
The income approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow model, which includes discounted cash flow scenarios and requires the following significant estimates: revenue, expenses, capital spending and other costs, and discount rates based on the respective risks of the cash flows.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the aggregate amount of consideration we pay for a company is allocated to net tangible assets and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The excess of the purchase price over the value of the net tangible assets and intangible assets is recorded to goodwill.
On an annual basis, we test goodwill for impairment and through September 30, 2019, we have never recorded an impairment charge against our goodwill balance.
39

Share-based Compensation



We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values.
We utilize RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees.
Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods.
Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $14.5 million at September 30, 2019.
If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense.
Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
Inventories



Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method.
We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable.
In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand.
Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business.
The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate.
Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations.
For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand.
Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued.
During the six months ended September 30, 2018, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $5.0 million.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period.
All adjustments to the positions are recorded through the income statement.
Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition if the taxing authority has completed an audit of the period that results in the position being effectively settled or if the statute of limitation expires.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
Senior and Junior Subordinated Convertible Debt



We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized.
This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our consolidated statements of income.
Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met.
We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and have adopted an accounting policy to settle the principal amount of the senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash.
This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future.
Contingencies



In the ordinary course of our business, we are exposed to various liabilities as a result of contracts, product liability, customer claims, governmental investigations and other matters.
Additionally, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant.
Consequently, we could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions.
Litigation, governmental investigations and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and we are, from time to time, subject to such litigation, governmental investigations and disputes.
As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation, governmental investigations or disputes in the future.
We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable.
Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate.
If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range.
Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model.
If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable.
41

Results of Operations



The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the periods covered by this report:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Sales



We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies.
We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral.
In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit.
The following table summarizes our net sales for the periods covered by this report (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The decrease in net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which were negatively impacted by general economic conditions, trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs.
The increase in net sales in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the six months ended September 30, 2018 was due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi as the September 30, 2019 results included two full quarters of Microsemi net sales compared to four months of Microsemi net sales in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
The timing of the acquisition closing accounted for an increase of approximately 8% in our net sales.
Excluding the impact of the timing of the acquisition of Microsemi, these adverse conditions negatively affected net sales by approximately 7% compared to the same period in the prior year.
The overall average selling price of our products increased significantly during the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose average selling price is higher than the average selling price of our historical business due to the types of products they offer and the types of customers and markets they serve.
Key factors impacting the amount of net sales during the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 include:



•our acquisition of Microsemi, which closed on May 29, 2018;



•global economic conditions in the markets we serve;



42

•trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs;



•semiconductor industry conditions;



•our new product offerings that have increased our served available market;



•customers' increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions;



•inventory holding patterns of our customers, including distributors; and



•increasing semiconductor content in our customers' products.
Net sales by product line for the periods covered by this report were as follows (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Microcontrollers



Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales.
Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 52.2% and 52.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 54.3% and 56.7% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Net sales of our microcontroller products decreased 10.4% and 6.3% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.
The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.
Analog, Interface, Mixed Signal and Timing Products



Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 29.4% and 29.3% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 29.3% and 28.4% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products decreased 6.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and increased 3.9% in the six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The decrease for the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2018 is due primarily to adverse demand conditions in the markets we serve.
The increase for the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the six months ended September 30, 2018 is due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, partially offset by adverse demand conditions in the markets we serve.
43

Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature.
Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products.
We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time.
Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) Products



Our FPGA product line was primarily acquired as part of our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018.
Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 7.0% and 6.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 4.9% and 4.1% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
These increases are due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Net sales of our FPGA products increased 31.6% and 69.5% in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
These sales increases were due primarily to customer demand conditions and our acquisition of Microsemi.
FPGA product pricing has historically been relatively stable because they are proprietary products with significant design in complexity and they are frequently designed into long-lived end applications.
Licensing, Memory and Other



Licensing, memory and other (LMO) includes royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees for engineering services, memory products, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications.
Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 11.4% and 10.9% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to approximately 11.5% and 10.8% of our net sales for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Net sales related to these services and products decreased 6.7% in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and increased 2.0% in the six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
LMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our licenses, engineering services, memory products, and manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting).
Distribution



Distributors accounted for approximately 49.8% and 50.0% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and approximately 49.7% and 51.3% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, which represented 11% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, no other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019.
In the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, no distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales.
Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.
We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.
We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel.
Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice.
At September 30, 2019, our distributors maintained 30 days of inventory of our products compared to 35 days at March 31, 2019.
Over the past ten fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between approximately 27 days and 47 days.
Inventory holding patterns at our distributors may have a material impact on our net sales.
Sales by Geography



Sales by geography for the periods covered by this report were as follows (dollars in millions):



44

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America.
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 79% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 80% and 82% of our total net sales in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated.
Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market; however, sales to Asia in dollars and as a percentage of our total net sales decreased in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose sales to customers in Asia accounted for a smaller portion of their total net sales than Microchip's historical business, and to a lesser extent, trade restrictions and adverse changes in tariffs.
Sales to customers in the Americas increased as a percentage of total sales in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which had more concentration in the aerospace and defense industry in the Americas.
Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia.
Gross Profit



Our gross profit in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $827.5 million, or 61.9% of net sales, compared to $689.3 million, or 48.1% of net sales, in the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Our gross profit in the six months ended September 30, 2019 was $1,642.7 million, or 61.7% of net sales, compared to $1,331.3 million, or 50.3% of net sales, in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
The most significant factors affecting our gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this Form 10-Q were:



•charges of approximately $182.1 million and $289.6 million, respectively, in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 related to the recognition of acquired inventory at fair value as a result of our acquisition of Microsemi which increased the value of our acquired inventory and subsequently increased our cost of sales and reduced our gross margins when the related revenue was recognized;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•unabsorbed capacity charges of $5.0 million due to operating at below normal capacity in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018; and



•fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, FPGA products, memory products and technology licensing.
We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions.
When production levels are below normal capacity, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $8.9 million and $16.2 million, respectively.
During three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $5.0 million.
The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) 



45

predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes.
All of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 2 and Fab 4 to be 90% to 95%.
Our wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado (Fab 5) currently utilizes processes between 0.25 micron and 1.0 micron that run on 6-inch wafers.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%.
Our overall inventory levels were $734.2 million at September 30, 2019, compared to $711.7 million at March 31, 2019.
We maintained 131 days of inventory on our balance sheet at September 30, 2019 compared to 128 days of inventory at March 31, 2019.
We expect our days of inventory levels in the December 2019 quarter to be flat to up 13 days compared to the September 2019 levels.
We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world.
Approximately 45% of our assembly requirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 36% and 37% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Approximately 54% of our test requirements were performed in our internal test facilities during each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 45% and 48% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The increases in the percentage of assembly and test operations that were performed internally in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 are primarily due to our investments in assembly and test equipment, which increased our internal capacity capabilities, and also due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which reduced our demand for external assembly and test operations.
Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly and test operations.
We plan to continue to transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities.
Approximately 61% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in each of the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to approximately 58% and 54% during the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The increases were primarily due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which outsources the majority of its wafer fabrication requirements.
The timing of the acquisition, which occurred on May 29, 2018, also contributed to the increase as the September 30, 2019 results included a full six months of Microsemi activity compared to four months in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.
Research and Development (R&D)



R&D expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2019 were $219.8 million, or 16.4% of net sales, compared to $221.9 million, or 15.5% of net sales, for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
R&D expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2019 were $438.9 million, or 16.5% of net sales, compared to $393.8 million, or 14.9% of net sales, for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized when related to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives.
R&D expenses include labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments.
46

R&D expenses decreased $2.1 million, or 0.9%, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 over the same period last year.
R&D expenses increased $45.1 million, or 11.5%, for the six months ended September 30, 2019 over the same period last year.
The primary reason for the increase in R&D costs in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year was additional costs from our acquisition of Microsemi.
Selling, General and Administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2019 were $172.3 million, or 12.9% of net sales, compared to $176.6 million, or 12.3% of net sales, for the three months ended September 30, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the six months ended September 30, 2019 were $340.2 million, or 12.8% of net sales, compared to $340.7 million, or 12.9% of net sales, for the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $4.3 million, or 2.4%, for the three months ended September 30, 2019 over the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $0.5 million, or 0.1%, for the six months ended September 30, 2019 over the same period last year.
The primary reasons for the decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses were reductions in personnel and associated costs in connection with synergies realized from our Microsemi acquisition, partially offset by remediation costs related to the network compromise discussed in Item 4 of this Form 10-Q.
Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets



Amortization of acquired intangible assets for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 was $248.2 million and $496.7 million, respectively, compared to $169.9 million and $303.6 million for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
The primary reason for the increases in acquired intangible asset amortization was increased amortization from our acquisition of Microsemi partially offset by decreased amortization of intangible assets from our prior acquisitions.
Special Charges and Other, Net 



During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, we incurred special charges and other, net of $3.6 million and $11.7 million, respectively, compared to $18.2 million and $58.3 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
Other Income (Expense)



Interest income in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively, compared to $0.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The primary reason for the decrease in interest income in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year was lower invested cash balances.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, we used a substantial portion of our cash to help finance the purchase price of our acquisition of Microsemi.
Interest expense in the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 was $129.6 million and $262.2 million, respectively, compared to $138.6 million and $229.0 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018.
The primary reason for the decrease in interest expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year relates to the cumulative pay down of $1.73 billion of our debt.
The primary reason for the increase in interest expense in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period last year relates to our additional borrowings to help finance our acquisition of Microsemi.
47

During the three and six months ended September 30, 2019, we recognized a loss of $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, in connection with the amendment to our Revolving Credit Facility and the voluntary prepayment of a portion of the outstanding balance on our Term Loan Facility.
During the three and six months ended September 30, 2018, we recognized a loss of $4.1 million in connection with early pay downs of a portion of the outstanding balance on our Term Loan Facility and our Revolving Credit Facility.
Other loss, net in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.4 million.
Other income, net in the six months ended September 30, 2019 was $1.3 million.
Other loss, net in the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 was $0.2 million and $10.0 million respectively.
The primary reason for these changes relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Provision for Income Taxes



We account for incomes taxes in accordance with ASC 740.
Our effective tax rates for the six months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018 were not meaningful due to the amount of pre-tax income, and income tax benefits recorded during the period.
Our domestic statutory tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 was approximately 22% and our domestic statutory tax rate for fiscal 2019 was approximately 22%.
Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates for the three and six months ended September 30, 2018 and fiscal 2019 were much lower than this amount.
The difference in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors, including lower statutory rates, tax holidays, financing arrangements and other factors.
Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand.
We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate.
Microsemi’s tax holiday in Malaysia was granted in 2009 and is effective through December 2019, subject to continued compliance with the tax holiday’s requirements.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
48

Liquidity and Capital Resources



We had $405.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at September 30, 2019, a decrease of $25.8 million from the March 31, 2019 balance.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $776.6 million in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $789.9 million in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Net cash used in investing activities was $54.7 million in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $6.74 billion in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
During the six months ended September 30, 2019, net investing activities primarily related to capital purchases and investments in other assets.
In the six months ended September 30, 2018, investing cash flows included net cash and cash equivalents used to finance our acquisition of Microsemi of $7.85 billion net of $340.0 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired, offset by net cash inflows of $1.28 billion due to the sale of available-for-sale debt securities to fund our acquisition of Microsemi, and capital expenditures of $161.4 million.
Capital expenditures in the six months ended September 30, 2019 were $41.6 million compared to $161.4 million in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings.
We currently intend to spend between $110 million and $130 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities.
We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations.
Net cash used in financing activities was $748.7 million in the six months ended September 30, 2019 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $5.50 billion in the six months ended September 30, 2018.
The cash flows provided by financing activities during the six months ended September 30, 2018, were favorably impacted by net proceeds from amounts borrowed to fund our acquisition of Microsemi.
Significant transactions affecting our net financing cash flows include:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On May 29, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards for our common stock, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized $3.23 billion in liabilities in our consolidated financial statements of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion of loans under our Revolving Credit Facility, $3.00 billion under the Term Loan Facility, and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition.
During the six months ended September 30, 2019, we voluntarily prepaid $188.0 million of principal under the Term Loan Facility.
During fiscal 2019, we voluntarily prepaid $1.09 billion of principal under the Term Loan Facility, of which $500.0 million was from funds borrowed under our Revolving Credit Facility.
At September 30, 2019, we had $1.72 billion of outstanding borrowings under our Term Loan Facility compared to $1.91 billion at March 31, 2019.
In September 2019, we amended our credit agreement dated May 29, 2018, to, among other things, reduce the margin added to the interest rate on revolving loans under the Credit Agreement.
The amendment also allows us the option to 



49

refinance the term loans or revolving loans up to a certain dollar limit and the option to factor receivables and certain related assets.
The amendment lowered the Revolving Credit Facility thereunder to $3.57 billion from $3.60 billion at June 30, 2019.
The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.57 billion, with a $250.0 million foreign currency sublimit, a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a $25.0 million swingline loan sublimit.
The Credit Agreement also provides for the Term Loan Facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility consists of $3.57 billion of revolving loan commitments (the "2023 Revolving Loans") that terminate on May 18, 2023 (the "2023 Maturity Date").
The 2023 Revolving Loans bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 0.75% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.00% to 1.75%, in each case, with such spread being determined based on the consolidated senior leverage ratio for the preceding four fiscal quarter period.
At September 30, 2019, we had $2.88 billion of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility compared to $3.27 billion at March 31, 2019.
See Note 14 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our Credit Agreement.
Due to this change, the jurisdiction in which our cash is at any given point in time no longer has a significant impact on our liquidity.
We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations.
Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.
At September 30, 2019, we had foreign currency forward contracts outstanding with a notional amount of $250.0 million and $30.1 million to economically hedge certain balance sheet exposures related to the Malaysian ringgit and Taiwanese dollar, respectively.
There were no repurchases of common stock during the six months ended September 30, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, we held approximately 14.5 million shares as treasury shares.
On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3660 per share was paid on September 4, 2019 in the aggregate amount of $87.3 million.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3665 per share was declared on November 5, 2019 and will be paid on December 5, 2019 to stockholders of record as of November 21, 2019.
We expect the aggregate cash dividend for December 2019 to be approximately $87.7 million.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development.
We may increase our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.
There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
50

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees)



As of September 30, 2019, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K with the exception of standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries.
We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements.
Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements.
Prior to the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we did not record any liability in connection with various operating leases for buildings and equipment entered into in the ordinary course of business.
We recorded the associated lease obligations as a liability when we adopted the provisions of the Accounting Standard Update 2016-02-Leases, which was effective April 1, 2019.
Refer to Note 2 and Note 11 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the adoption of this accounting standard.
