Item 2.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
We then discuss our Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources," "Contractual Obligations" and "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements."
Strategy



Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, wired and wireless connectivity products, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, timing systems, memory products and Flash-IP licensing.
We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products.
We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries.
The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control 



 38

techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields.
Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles.
This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin.
We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products.
While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products.
We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGAs, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries.
We market and sell our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors.
Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.
We believe that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.
Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia.
We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia.
We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market.
Many of our client engagement managers (CEMs), embedded system engineers (ESEs), and sales management personnel have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment.
We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products.
The primary mission of our ESE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for CEMs and distributor sales teams.
ESEs also frequently conduct technical seminars for our customers in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support.
Acquisition of Microsemi



On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of Microchip, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized in our consolidated financial statements $3.18 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in costs related to the acquisition.
As a result of the acquisition, Microsemi became a wholly owned subsidiary of Microchip.
Microsemi offers a comprehensive portfolio of semiconductor and system solutions for aerospace and defense, communications, data center and industrial markets.
Our primary reason for this acquisition was to expand our range of solutions, products and capabilities by extending our served available market.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, share-based compensation, inventories, income taxes, senior and junior subordinated convertible debt and contingencies.
We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis.
Therefore, revenue recognition was deferred until the pricing uncertainty was resolved, which generally occurred when the distributor sold the product to their customer.
At the time of shipment to these distributors, we recorded a trade receivable for the selling price as there was a legally enforceable right to payment, relieved inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title had passed to the distributor, and recorded the gross margin in deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets.
We sold the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price.
However, distributors resold our products to end customers at a broad range of individually negotiated price points.
The majority of our distributors' resales required a reduction from the original list price paid.
Often, under these circumstances, we remitted back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction was completed in the form of a credit against the distributors' outstanding accounts receivable balance.
The credits were on a per unit basis and were not given to the distributor until they provided information to us regarding the sale to their end customer.
Discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare.
The effect of granting these credits established the net selling price to our distributors for the product and resulted in the net revenue recognized by us when the product was sold by the distributors to their end customers.
Thus, a portion of the "deferred income on shipments to distributors" balance represented the amount of distributors' original purchase price that was credited back to the distributors in the subsequent periods.
At March 31, 2018, we had approximately $479.6 million of deferred revenue and $145.8 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $333.8 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors.
The deferred income on shipments to distributors that was ultimately recognized in our income statement was lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet at March 31, 2018 due to additional price credits that were granted to the distributors when the product was sold to their customers.
These additional price credits historically have resulted in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognized in the distribution channel of our business.
Distributor advances, reflected as a reduction of deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, totaled $203.9 million at March 31, 2018.
It is our practice to apply these negotiated price discounts to future purchases, requiring the distributor to settle receivable balances, on a current basis, 



 40

generally within 30 days, for amounts originally invoiced.
This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors.
As such, we have entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby we advance cash to the distributors to reduce the distributors' working capital requirements.
These advances are reconciled at least on a quarterly basis and are estimated based on the amount of ending inventory as reported by the distributor multiplied by a negotiated percentage.
The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bear no interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand.
The agreements governing these advances can be canceled by us at any time.
Price protection was granted to distributors on the inventory they had on hand at the date the price protection was offered.
When we reduced the price of our products, it allowed the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it had on hand as of the date of the price reduction.
We routinely evaluated the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account.
We apply the following five-step approach to determine the timing and amount of revenue recognition: (1) identify the contract with the customer, (2) identify performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
As is customary in the semiconductor industry, we offer price concessions and stock rotation rights to many of our distributors.
As these are forms of variable consideration, we estimate the amount of consideration to which we will be entitled using recent historical data and applying the expected value method.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with distributors is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the end customer.
Sales to direct customers usually do not meet the definition of a contract, as defined by ASC 606, until shipment of the product occurs.
Generally, the transaction price associated with contracts with direct customers is set at the standalone selling price and is not variable.
Usually, there is only a single performance obligation in the contract, and therefore the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
After the transaction price has been allocated, we recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied.
Substantially all of the revenue generated from contracts with direct customers is recognized at the time risk and title of the inventory transfers to the customer.
Revenue generated from our licensees is governed by licensing agreements.
The final transaction price is determined by multiplying the usage of the license by the royalty, which is fixed in the licensing agreement.
Revenue is recognized as usage of the license occurs.
41

Business Combinations



All of our business combinations are accounted for at fair value under the acquisition method of accounting.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, (i) acquisition-related costs, except for those costs incurred to issue debt or equity securities, will be expensed in the period incurred; (ii) non-controlling interests will be valued at fair value at the acquisition date; (iii) in-process research and development will be recorded at fair value as an intangible asset at the acquisition date and amortized once the technology reaches technological feasibility; (iv) restructuring costs associated with a business combination will be expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and (v) changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date will be recognized through income tax expense or directly in contributed capital.
The measurement of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires significant judgment.
The valuation of intangible assets, in particular, requires that we use valuation techniques such as the income approach.
The income approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow model, which includes discounted cash flow scenarios and requires the following significant estimates: revenue, expenses, capital spending and other costs, and discount rates based on the respective risks of the cash flows.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the aggregate amount of consideration we pay for a company is allocated to net tangible assets and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The excess of the purchase price over the value of the net tangible assets and intangible assets is recorded to goodwill.
On an annual basis, we test goodwill for impairment and, through December 31, 2018, we have never recorded an impairment charge against our goodwill balance.
Share-based Compensation



We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values.
For the past several years, we have utilized RSUs as our primary equity incentive compensation instrument for employees.
Share-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date based on the fair market value of our common stock discounted for expected future dividends and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods.
Total share-based compensation during the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $127.5 million, of which $116.6 million was reflected in operating expenses and $10.9 million was reflected in cost of sales.
Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $10.8 million at December 31, 2018.
We recognize forfeitures as they occur.
If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense.
Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions.
Inventories



Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method.
We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable.
In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand.
Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business.
The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate.
Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations.
For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand.
Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued.
There was no charge to cost of sales for reduced production levels in each of the nine month periods ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Act"), we released our valuation allowance on foreign tax credits during the period ending March 31, 2018, which was provisional.
With the conclusion of our measurement period as allowed under Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118, we are not making any changes to our previous release of the valuation allowance on foreign tax credits.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If this threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
We will record an adjustment to a previously recorded position if new information or facts related to the position are identified in a subsequent period.
All adjustments to the positions are recorded in the income statement.
Generally, adjustments will be recorded in periods subsequent to the initial recognition if the taxing authority has completed an audit of the period or if the statute of limitation expires.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in the estimation process and in consideration of the criteria of the accounting model, amounts recognized in the financial statements in periods subsequent to the initial recognition may significantly differ from the estimated exposure of the position under the accounting model.
On December 22, 2017, the Act was enacted into law.
As a fiscal year-end taxpayer, certain provisions of the Act began to impact us in our third quarter of fiscal 2018, while other provisions have become effective for us in fiscal 2019.
In addition, we expect to be impacted by the limitations on the deductibility of interest expense, which we expect to generate disallowed interest expense carryforwards in future periods, causing an increase in our overall deferred tax asset position.
The FASB allows taxpayers to make an accounting policy election of either (1) treating taxes due on GILTI inclusions as a current-period expense when incurred or (2) recognizing deferred taxes for temporary basis differences that are expected to reverse as GILTI in future years.
During the period ended December 31, 2018, we are making a policy choice to include taxes due on the future GILTI inclusion in taxable income when incurred.
43

Senior and Junior Subordinated Convertible Debt



We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized.
This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debt in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met.
We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and have adopted an accounting policy to settle the principal amount of the senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash.
This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future.
Additionally, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant.
Consequently, we could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions.
Litigation and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and we are, from time to time, subject to such litigation and disputes.
As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation or disputes in the future.
We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable.
Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate.
If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range.
Contingencies of an acquired company that exist as of the date of the acquisition are measured at fair value if determinable, which generally is based on a probability weighted model.
If fair value is not determinable, contingencies of an acquired company are recognized when they become probable and reasonably estimable.
Results of Operations



The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 44

Net Sales



We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies.
We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral.
In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit.
The following table summarizes our net sales for the periods covered by this report (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The increases in net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
As discussed in the following paragraphs, there were revenue gains across our product lines.
Net sales by product line for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 45

Microcontrollers



Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales.
Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 52.2% and 55.2% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 66.5% and 66.0% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net sales of our microcontroller products increased 8.5% and 13.1% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
These sales increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product.
The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions.
Analog, Interface, Mixed Signal and Timing Products



Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 28.8% and 28.6% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 23.3% and 23.8% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
The increases are due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product line accounted for a relatively higher percentage of its total net sales.
Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products increased 71.3% and 61.7% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
These sales increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi.
Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature.
Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products.
We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time.
Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) Products



Our FPGA product line was primarily acquired as part of our acquisition of Microsemi on May 29, 2018.
Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 7.1% and 5.1%, respectively, of our net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018.
FPGA product pricing has historically been relatively stable because they are proprietary products with significant design in complexity and they are frequently designed into long-lived end applications.
Memory Products



Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 3.2% and 3.5% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 4.8% and 5.0% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
46

Net sales of our memory products decreased 8.7% and 5.1% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
These sales decreases were due primarily to customer demand conditions.
We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory products.
Technology licensing accounted for approximately 3.2% and 2.7% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 2.8% and 2.6% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Net sales related to our technology licensing increased 57.8% and 38.3% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Multi-market and Other



Multi-market and Other (MMO) consists of manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications.
Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 5.5% and 4.9% of our net sales for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 2.6% of our net sales for each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Net sales related to these services and products increased 191.6% and 150.1% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
These increases were due primarily to our acquisition of Microsemi, which significantly increased our portfolio of timing systems products.
MMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting).
Distribution



Distributors accounted for approximately 49.9% and 50.9% of our net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 and approximately 53.7% and 54.2% of our net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The decreases in these percentages in the periods ended December 31, 2018 compared to the periods ended December 31, 2017 are due to our acquisition of Microsemi, whose distributors accounted for a smaller portion of net sales than Microchip's historical business.
Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers.
We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base.
We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel.
Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice.
Our distributors maintained 36 days of inventory of our products at December 31, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
Over the past five fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between 31 days and 40 days.
Prior to our adoption of ASU 2014-09-Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) on April 1, 2018, we did not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors materially impacted our net sales due to the fact that we recognized revenue based on when the distributor sold the product to their customer.
Upon our 



 47

adoption of Topic 606 on April 1, 2018, we are required to recognize revenue from distributors at the time our products are sold to the distributor.
Sales by Geography



Sales by geography for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (dollars in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America.
Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 80% and 81% of our total net sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to approximately 85% of our total net sales in each of the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated.
Sales to customers in the Americas increased as a percentage of total sales in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which had more concentration in the aerospace and defense industry in the Americas.
Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia.
Gross Profit



Our gross profit in the three months ended December 31, 2018 was $779.6 million, or 56.7% of net sales, compared to $607.1 million, or 61.1% of net sales, in the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Our gross profit in the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $2,110.9 million, or 52.5% of net sales, compared to $1,805.6 million, or 60.6% of net sales, in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The most significant factors affecting our gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this Form 10-Q were:



•charges of approximately $86.0 million and $375.7 million, respectively, in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, related to the recognition of acquired inventory at fair value as a result of our acquisition of Microsemi which increased the value of our acquired inventory and subsequently increased our cost of sales and reduced our gross margins when the related revenue was recognized;



•inventory write-downs being lower than the gross margin impact of sales of inventory that was previously written down in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017; and



•fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, memory products and technology licensing.
48

We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions.
When production levels are below normal capacity, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in an unabsorbed capacity charge of $6.9 million and $11.9 million, respectively.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels.
The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes.
Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes.
All of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 2 and Fab 4 to be 90% to 95%.
Our wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado (Fab 5) currently utilizes processes between 0.25 micron and 1.0 micron that run on 6-inch wafers.
We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%.
As a result of our acquisition of Micrel in August 2015, we acquired a 6-inch wafer fabrication facility in San Jose, California and have since transitioned products previously manufactured at this facility to our Fab 2, Fab 4 and Fab 5 facilities.
During the quarter ended December 31, 2016, we decommissioned this San Jose facility and, in June 2017, we completed the sale of these assets for proceeds of $10.0 million.
Our overall inventory levels were $702.5 million at December 31, 2018, compared to $476.2 million at March 31, 2018.
Our overall inventory levels increased since March 31, 2018 because of our acquisition of Microsemi, which had $184.6 million of inventory as of December 31, 2018.
We maintained 108 days of inventory on our balance sheet at December 31, 2018 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2018.
Excluding the impact of the fair value mark-up from our Microsemi acquisition, we would have maintained 123 days of inventory on our balance sheet at December 31, 2018 compared to 112 days of inventory at March 31, 2018.
We expect our days of inventory levels in the March 2019 quarter to be flat to up 10 days compared to the December 2018 levels.
We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers.
We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world.
Approximately 38% and 37% of our assembly requirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 41% and 39% during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Approximately 49% and 48% of our test requirements were performed in our internal test facilities in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to approximately 67% and 62% during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly and test operations.
The decreases in the percentage of assembly and test work that was performed internally in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 were primarily due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which outsources substantially all of its assembly and test requirements.
We plan to continue to transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities.
Approximately 60% and 56% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively, compared to 43% and 42% in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The increases were primarily due to our acquisition of Microsemi, which outsourced substantially all of its wafer fabrication requirements.
Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract.
Research and Development (R&D) 



R&D expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $217.7 million, or 15.8% of net sales, compared to $131.6 million, or 13.2% of net sales, for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
R&D expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were $611.6 million, or 15.2% of net sales, compared to $395.7 million, or 13.3% of net sales, for the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies.
We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position.
Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized when related to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives.
R&D expenses include labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments.
R&D expenses increased $86.1 million, or 65.4%, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 over the same period last year.
R&D expenses increased $215.9 million, or 54.6%, for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 over the same period last year.
The primary reasons for the increases in R&D costs were additional costs from our acquisition of Microsemi.
Selling, General and Administrative



Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $174.8 million, or 12.7% of net sales, compared to $109.1 million, or 11.0% of net sales, for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were $515.5 million, or 12.8% of net sales, compared to $337.6 million, or 11.3% of net sales, for the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $65.7 million, or 60.2%, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 over the same period last year.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $177.9 million, or 52.7%, for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 over the same period last year.
The primary reasons for the increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were additional costs from our acquisition of Microsemi, including approximately $4.8 million and $36.3 million of acquisition-related legal and professional service expenses in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, respectively.
Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets



Amortization of acquired intangible assets for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $193.7 million and $497.2 million, respectively, compared to $121.0 million and $362.8 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
The primary reason for the increases in acquired intangible asset amortization was increased amortization from our acquisition of Microsemi partially offset by decreased amortization of intangible assets from our prior acquisitions.
Special (Income) Charges and Other, Net 



During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we earned special income and other, net of $1.3 million which was comprised primarily of income from legal settlements, which were offset by employee separation costs.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we incurred special charges and other, net of $57.0 million which was comprised primarily of $60.5 million of employee separation costs.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, we incurred special charges and other, net of $0.2 million and $17.3 million, respectively.
The special charges and other, net incurred in the 



 50

nine months ended December 31, 2017 is comprised primarily of a $19.5 million charge for fees associated with transitioning from a public utility provider to a lower cost direct access provider.
Our restructuring activities include workforce, property and other operating expense rationalizations as well as combining product roadmaps and manufacturing operations.
The impairment charges in the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were recognized as a result of writing off intangible assets purchased from Microsemi prior to the close of the acquisition and other intangible assets that were impaired as a result of combining and prioritizing the project roadmaps of the combined companies.
Other Income (Expense)



Interest income in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $0.7 million and $7.3 million, respectively, compared to $6.3 million and $14.4 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The primary reason for the decreases in interest income relates to lower average cash and investment balances during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, we used a substantial portion of our cash to help finance the purchase price of our acquisition of Microsemi, which closed on May 29, 2018.
Interest expense in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $137.6 million and $366.7 million, respectively, compared to $49.7 million and $148.7 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
The primary reason for the increases in interest expense relates to our additional borrowings to help finance our acquisition of Microsemi.
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a loss of $0.2 million and $4.3 million, respectively, in connection with early pay downs of a portion of the outstanding balance on the term loan feature of our credit facility ("Term Loan Facility").
During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, we settled the remaining principal of our 2007 junior debt resulting in a loss on settlement of convertible debt of $2.1 million and $16.0 million, respectively.
Other loss, net in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2018 was $2.5 million and $12.4 million, respectively.
Other loss, net in the three months ended December 31, 2017 was $2.9 million and other income, net in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 was $7.4 million.
The primary reason for these changes relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Our effective tax rates for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were not meaningful due to the amount of pre-tax income and the tax benefits recorded during the period.
Our domestic statutory tax rate for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 was approximately 22.2% and our domestic statutory tax rate for fiscal 2018 was approximately 32.6%.
Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates for the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and fiscal 2018 were much lower than this amount.
Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand.
We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate.
Microsemi’s tax holiday in Malaysia was granted in 2009 and is effective through December 2019, subject to continued compliance with the tax holiday’s requirements.
Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations.
At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be.
If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized.
If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



We had $436.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at December 31, 2018, a decrease of $1.76 billion from the March 31, 2018 balance.
The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to $1.74 billion in cash and $8.40 billion from additional debt to fund our acquisition of Microsemi and payoff Microsemi’s existing debt, partially offset by proceeds from new debt issuances of $4.99 billion, net borrowings of $3.33 billion on our Credit Facility and cash generated by operating activities.
Net cash provided from operating activities was $1.27 billion in the nine months ended December 31, 2018, compared to $1.06 billion in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to higher cash provided by our acquisition of Microsemi in the nine months ended December 31, 2018.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $6.77 billion compared to $961.6 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
In the nine months ended December 31, 2018, investing cash flows included net cash and cash equivalents used to finance our acquisition of Microsemi of $7.85 billion net of $340.0 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired, offset by net cash inflows of $1.28 billion due to the sale of available-for-sale debt securities to fund our acquisition of Microsemi, and capital expenditures of $188.8 million.
During the nine months ended December 31, 2017, net investing activities resulted in a use of cash of $961.6 million primarily the net change in our investments, capital purchases and sale of assets.
Capital expenditures in the nine months ended December 31, 2018 were $188.8 million compared to $148.4 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings.
Capital expenditures in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 were relatively less than we had experienced in recent years as we delayed certain purchases until we had finalized and developed plans following our acquisition of Atmel regarding technology platforms and other manufacturing activities.
We currently intend to spend between $125 million and $150 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities.
We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced.
We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $5.03 billion in the nine months ended December 31, 2018 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $335.1 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2017.
The cash flows provided by financing activities during the nine months ended December 31, 2018, were favorably impacted by net proceeds from amounts borrowed to fund our acquisition of Microsemi.
Financing activities in the nine months ended December 31, 2017 included $73.4 million in cash used to settle conversions of our 2007 Junior Debt.
Significant transactions affecting our net financing cash flows include:



•net proceeds of $3.73 billion from borrowings under our Credit Facility;



•net proceeds of $1.99 billion from the issuance of our Senior Secured Notes;



•$3.0 billion of proceeds under our new Term Loan Facility;



•$2.06 billion of cash used to pay off Microsemi's existing debt;



•$1.27 billion of cash used to pay down principal on the Term Loan Facility and the Credit Facility, and [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 52

On May 29, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Microsemi Corporation, a publicly traded company headquartered in Aliso Viejo, California.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards for our common stock, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, we recognized $3.18 billion in liabilities in our consolidated financial statements of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, pension obligations, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
We financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under our Credit Facility, $3.00 billion under the term loan feature of the Credit Facility ("Term Loan Facility"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
We incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition.
At December 31, 2018, we had $2.71 billion of outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Facility.
In May 2018, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement which provides for a revolving loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.84 billion, which was reduced to $3.60 billion in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 through the canceling of the 2020 Tranche, with a $250.0 million foreign currency sublimit, a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a $25.0 million swingline loan sublimit.
The revolving loan facility consists of approximately $3.60 billion of revolving loan commitments (the "2023 Revolving Loans") that terminate on May 18, 2023 (the "2023 Maturity Date").
The Revolving Loans bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 1.00% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.00% to 2.00%, in each case, with such spread being determined based on the consolidated senior leverage ratio for the preceding four fiscal quarter period.
At December 31, 2018, we had $2.74 billion of outstanding borrowings under the revolving loan facility and no borrowings at March 31, 2018.
See Note 13 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our Credit Facility.
In June 2017, in connection with the settlement of $111.3 million of our convertible debt, we amended our credit agreement to (i) extend the time period during which we are permitted to repurchase, redeem or exchange our 2007 Junior Convertible Debt and (ii) amend the maximum total leverage ratio covenant to extend the time period for permitted refinancings or exchanges of the 2007 Junior Convertible Debt that may be excluded from the calculation of the ratio, subject to certain conditions.
In February 2017, we amended our Credit Facility to, among other things, increase certain covenant compliance ratios.
The February 2017 amendment included a new collateral agreement that secures our borrowings with all assets of our guarantor subsidiaries with the exception of real property.
Proceeds of loans made under our Credit Facility may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes.
Due to this change, the jurisdiction in which our cash is at any given point in time, no longer has a significant impact on our liquidity.
As a result of the Act, as of March 31, 2018, we recognized a one-time provisional transition tax expense of $644.7 million on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings.
As we concluded with our measurement period in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") 118, we finalized our calculations of the transition tax expense during the period ended December 31, 2018.
As such, we increased our March 31, 2018 provisional amount by $13.1 million to $657.8 million, of which we expect cash payments of approximately $293.1 million after offsets by the utilization of various tax attribute carryforwards in the United States.
This tax is to be paid over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid each year for fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2023, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid during fiscal 2024, 2025 and 2026.
We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations.
Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.
At December 31, 2018, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding.
There were no repurchases of common stock during the nine months ended December 31, 2018.
As of December 31, 2018, we held approximately 16.3 million shares as treasury shares.
On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3645 per share was paid on December 5, 2018 in the aggregate amount of $86.3 million.
A quarterly dividend of $0.3650 per share was declared on February 5, 2019 and will be paid on March 7, 2019 to stockholders of record as of February 21, 2019.
We expect the aggregate cash dividend for March 2019 to be approximately $86.8 million.
We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development.
We may increase our borrowings under our Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes.
There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders.
Contractual Obligations



There have not been any material changes in our contractual obligations from what we disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, other than those obligations at December 31, 2018 that resulted from our acquisition of Microsemi including amounts borrowed to fund such acquisition.
The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2018, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods.
This table excludes amounts already recorded on our balance sheet as current liabilities at December 31, 2018 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Operating lease obligations include $19.5 million of future lease payments which is recorded as a liability on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2018.
This obligation is due under an operating lease from our acquisition of Atmel for a building in San Jose, California.
(2) Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for construction or purchases of property, plant and equipment.
These obligations were not recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2018, as we have not yet received the related goods or taken title to the property.
(3) Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments due under various types of licenses and outstanding purchase commitments with our wafer foundries of approximately $90.0 million for delivery of wafers in fiscal 2019.
(4) The Term Loan Facility matures on May 18, 2023.
(5) For purposes of this table we have assumed that the principal of our 2023 revolving loans outstanding at December 31, 2018 will be paid on May 18, 2023, which is the maturity date of such borrowings.
54

(6) For purposes of this table we have assumed that the principal of our 2017 Senior Convertible Debt will be paid on February 15, 2027, which is the maturity date of such debt.
(7) For purposes of this table we have assumed that the principal of our 2015 Senior Convertible Debt will be paid on February 15, 2025, which is the maturity date of such debt.
(8) For purposes of this table we have assumed that the principal of our 2017 Junior Convertible Debt will be paid on February 15, 2037, which is the maturity date of such debt.
(9) For purposes of this table pension obligations due in more than 5 years represent the expected pension payments from 2023 through 2027.
It excludes pension obligations subsequent to 2027.
(10)During fiscal 2018, we recognized a provisionary one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $644.7 million, as a result of the recent U.S. tax reform.
As of December 31, 2018, with the conclusion of the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118, we increased this amount by $13.1 million to $657.8 million, of which we expect cash payments of approximately $293.1 million after offsets by the utilization of various tax attribute carryforwards in the United States.
Our first payment on this obligation of $35.0 million was made in the quarter ended September 30, 2018 and we expect future cash payments of approximately $258.1 million.
This tax is to be paid over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax paid each year for fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2023, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, to be paid during fiscal 2024, 2025, and 2026.
(11)Total contractual obligations do not include contractual obligations recorded on our balance sheet as current liabilities, or certain purchase obligations as discussed below.
The contractual obligations also do not include amounts related to uncertain tax positions because reasonable estimates cannot be made.
Purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of raw materials and other goods and services, with the exception of commitments to our wafer foundries, are not included in the table above.
We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements.
For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.
We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for three months.
We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts were not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.
The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees)



As of December 31, 2018, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
In the ordinary course of business, we may provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries.
We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements.
Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements.
