 PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION  



 ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
A-16-733154-C, and Hubert C. Pincon v. Newport Corp., et al., Case No.
A-16-734039-B, were filed in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada on behalf of a putative class of stockholders of Newport Corporation (“Newport”) for claims related to the merger agreement (“Newport Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Newport, and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”).
The lawsuits named as defendants the Company, Newport, Merger Sub, and certain then current and former members of Newport’s board of directors.
The complaints also alleged that the Company, Newport, and Merger Sub aided and abetted the directors’ alleged breaches of their fiduciary duties.
The complaints sought injunctive relief, including to enjoin or rescind the Newport Merger Agreement, and an award of attorneys’ and other fees and costs, among other relief.
On April 14, 2016, the Court consolidated the actions.
On October 19, 2016, plaintiffs in the consolidated action filed an amended complaint captioned In re Newport Corporation Shareholder Litigation, Case No.
A-16-733154-B, in the District Court, Clark County, Nevada, on behalf of a putative class of Newport’s stockholders for claims related to the Newport Merger Agreement.
On June 22, 2017, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to dismiss and dismissed the amended complaint against all defendants but granted plaintiffs leave to amend.
On July 27, 2017, plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint containing substantially similar allegations but naming only Newport’s former directors as defendants.
On August 8, 2017, the Court dismissed the Company and Newport from the action.
The Court granted a motion for class certification on September 27, 2018, appointing Mr. Pincon and Locals 302 and 612 of the International Union of Operating Engineers - Employers Construction Industry Retirement Trust as class representatives.
On June 11, 2018, plaintiff Dixon Chung was voluntarily dismissed from the litigation.
Discovery is ongoing in this action.
46   



Table of Contents 



ESI Litigation  



On November 29, 2018, a complaint captioned Brian Morris et.
al.
v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al.
was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon by alleged former stockholders of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. (“ESI”) in connection with the acquisition of ESI by the Company.
The complaint named the Company’s subsidiary, ESI, and the former members of ESI’s board of directors as defendants.
Five additional complaints were subsequently filed, two in the U.S. District Court for the District of Oregon and three in the Multnomah County Circuit Court in the State of Oregon.
The cases filed in the U.S. District Court were dated December 6, 2018 and December 12, 2018 and captioned Melvyn Klein et.
al.
v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al.
and Donald Mager et.
al.
v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al., respectively.
The complaints filed in Multnomah County Circuit Court were dated December 5, 2018, December 5, 2018 and December 13, 2018 and captioned Michael Kent et.
al v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al., Christopher Stanley et.
al v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et al.
and Eduardo Colmenares et.
al.
v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc., MKS Instruments, Inc., et al., respectively (collectively with Brian Morris et.
al.
v. Electro Scientific Industries, Inc. et.
al., the “Lawsuits”).
ITEM 1A.
47   



Table of Contents 



 ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 +  



Previously filed  



 *  



Management contract or compensatory plan arrangement  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



48   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



49   



Table of Contents
