Item 2.
Management believes that these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made.
However, caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements because such statements speak only as of the date when made.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law.
General Discussion 



We pursue a strategy of focusing primarily on quality control products and services, which are sold into niche markets that are driven by regulatory requirements.
We are organized into four divisions across eight physical locations.
Our sterilization and disinfection control division (“SDC” Division) manufactures and sells biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators.
Biological, cleaning, and chemical indicators are used to assess the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes in the hospital, dental, medical device, and pharmaceutical industries.
The division also provides testing and laboratory services, mainly to the dental industry.
Our Instruments Division designs, manufactures, and markets quality control instruments and disposable products utilized in the healthcare, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, medical device, industrial hygiene, and environmental air sampling industries.
Our Cold Chain Monitoring Division designs, develops, and markets systems which are used to monitor various environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and differential pressure to ensure that critical storage and processing conditions are maintained in hospitals, pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, blood banks, pharmacies, and other laboratory and industrial environments.
Our Cold Chain Packaging Division provides packaging development consulting services and thermal packaging products such as coolers, boxes, insulation materials, and phase-change products to control temperature during the customer’s transport of their own products.
Our revenues come from three main sources – hardware, consumables, and services.
Sterilization and disinfection control products and most products in our Cold Chain Packaging Division are disposable and are used on a routine basis, thus product sales are less sensitive to general economic conditions.
Service demand is driven by our customers’ quality control and regulatory environments, which require periodic repair and recalibration or certification of our instrument products and cold chain monitoring systems.
We typically evaluate costs and pricing annually.
Gross profit is affected by our product mix, manufacturing efficiencies, and price competition.
Selling expense is driven primarily by labor costs, including salaries and commissions.
Accordingly, it may vary with sales levels.
Labor costs, including non-cash stock-based compensation, and amortization of intangible assets drive the substantial majority of general and administrative expense.
General Trends  



Our strategic objectives include growth both organically and through further acquisitions.
During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we continued to build our infrastructure to prepare for future growth, including completing the relocation of the old Bozeman manufacturing facility into the new Bozeman building, the addition of key personnel to our operations, sales and marketing, and research and development teams, and the continued rollout of phase three of our ERP implementation project (European operations).
Page 13 



Table of Contents  



The markets for sterilization and disinfection control products remain strong, as the disposable nature of these products makes them less sensitive to general economic conditions.
The worldwide market for sterilization and disinfection control products is growing as more countries focus on verifying the effectiveness of sterilization and disinfection processes.
Demand for our instruments products and cold chain services and monitoring systems remains solid and we strive to continue to grow revenues going forward.
In general, our instruments products and cold chain monitoring systems are more impacted by general economic conditions than our sterilization and disinfection control and cold chain packaging products.
As a result, uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause businesses to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values.
We are hopeful that we will have new products available for sale in the coming year.
Overall revenues increased 11 percent, while organic revenues increased four percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2018, resulting from organic increases of 90 percent, 10 percent, and one percent from the Cold Chain Packaging, Cold Chain Monitoring, and Instruments Divisions, respectively, partially offset by an organic decrease of four percent for the SDC Division.
Results of Operations 



(Dollars in thousands) 



The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, condensed consolidated statements of income data.
The table and the discussion below should be read in conjunction with the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenues 



The following table summarizes our revenues by source: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



Sterilization and Disinfection Control revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 11 percent primarily due to the acquisitions of BAG Health Care GmbH Hygiene Monitoring, SIMICON GmbH, and Hucker & Hucker GmbH during fiscal year 2018, partially offset by an organic decline of four percent.
This decline is primarily associated with timing of fulfillment of orders related to the completion of the move into our new Bozeman Facility and we expect to fulfill the majority of the related backlog during the three months ending September 30, 2018.
Cold Chain Monitoring revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased 10 percent primarily due to organic growth of 10 percent.
Cold Chain Packaging revenues increased by 90 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
The increase was primarily due to an increased order rate with the division’s largest customer.
Gross Profit  



The following summarizes our gross profit by segment: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



Sterilization and Disinfection Control gross profit margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 relative to the three months ended June 30, 2017 primarily as a result of a $291 expense in the prior year related to moving costs for the Bozeman facility.
Excluding the impact of the moving costs in the three months ended June 30, 2017, gross margin percentage was essentially flat as compared to the prior year.
Cold Chain Monitoring gross profit margin percentage increased for the three months ended June 30, 2018 primarily due to efficiency gains.
Additionally, in the three months ended June 30, 2017, we recorded an inventory reserve charge of $216.
Cold Chain Packaging gross profit margin decreased primarily as a result of increased revenues from a large customer contract with higher than normal discount rates.
Page 15 



Table of Contents  



Operating Expenses 



Operating expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased in total as compared to the prior year as follows: 



Selling 



Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



Selling expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 29 percent primarily due to timing in the reduction and replacement of selling personnel.
Selling expense was eight percent of revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to 12 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
We plan to strategically reinvest in sales and marketing resources to further increase organic revenues growth.
General and Administrative 



Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



General and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased by $743.
Increases in non-cash stock-based compensation expense and amortization expense comprise $477 of the total, and one-time recruiting fees accounted for an additional $112 of the increase.
The remaining increase is composed of both recurring and non-recurring charges that are individually immaterial.
Research and Development 



Three months ended June 30, 2018 versus June 30, 2017 



Research and development expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased 27 percent due to streamlining the necessary engineers and materials and supplies required to support existing businesses.
We plan to make incremental investments in this area to further our development plans.
Other Expense 



Other expense for the three months ended June 30, 2018 is composed primarily of interest expense associated with our Credit Facility.
“Income Taxes” within Item 1.
Financial Statements for additional discussion).
The excess tax benefits and deficiencies associated with share-based payment awards to our employees have caused and, in the future, may cause large fluctuations in our realized effective tax rate based on timing, volume, and nature of stock options exercised under our share-based payment program.
Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2018 varied with the changes in revenues, gross profit, and operating expenses (which includes $1,860 of non-cash amortization of intangible assets).
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Our sources of liquidity include cash generated from operations, working capital, capacity under our Credit Facility, and potential equity and debt offerings.
We believe that cash generated from these sources will be sufficient to meet our short-term and long-term needs.
Our more significant uses of resources have historically included long-term capital equipment expenditures, payment of debt obligations, quarterly dividends to shareholders, and acquisitions.
Working capital is the amount by which current assets exceed current liabilities.
We had working capital of $17,193 and $14,698 at June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
Given our cash flow projections and unused capacity on our line of credit that is available until March 1, 2022, our liquidity is strong and is expected to meet our ongoing cash and debt service requirements for our general business needs.
Interest-bearing debt of $39,750 and $46,625 was outstanding at June 30, 2018 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The Term Loan requires 20 quarterly principal payments, which began on March 31, 2017, in the amount of $250,000 (increasing by $125,000 each year up to $750,000 in the fifth year).
The remaining balance of principal and accrued interest are due on March 1, 2022.
We were in compliance with all loan agreements at June 30, 2018 and for all prior years presented, and have met all debt payment obligations.
We completed the previously-announced move of our Omaha, Traverse City, and old Bozeman manufacturing facilities to our new facility in Bozeman, Montana.
We are currently holding our old Bozeman facility for sale, and we expect to be able to sell that building for approximately $2,300 (less broker commissions).
Future material acquisitions may require that we obtain additional capital, assume third party debt or incur other long-term obligations.
We believe that we have the option to utilize both equity and debt instruments as vehicles for the long-term financing of our investment activities and acquisitions.
At June 30, 2018, we had $58,500 on unused capacity under our credit facility, subject to covenant restrictions.
In addition, in June 2018, the SEC declared effective our Universal Shelf Registration Statement which allows us to sell, in one or more public offerings, common stock or warrants, or any combination of such securities for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $300,000.
The terms of any offering, including the type of securities involved, would be established at the time of sale.
Page 16 



Table of Contents  



Dividends 



We have paid regular quarterly dividends since 2003.
We declared and paid dividends of $0.16 per share for the three months ended June 30, 2018 as well as each quarter for the year ending March 31, 2018.
In July 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock, payable on September 17, 2018, to shareholders of record at the close of business on August 31, 2018.
Cash Flows 



Our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities were as follows (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



At June 30, 2018, we had contractual obligations for open purchase orders of approximately $3,194 for routine purchases of supplies and inventory, which are payable in less than one year.
Critical Accounting Estimates 



Critical accounting estimates are those that we believe are both significant and require us to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, often because we need to estimate the effect of inherently uncertain matters.
