PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION 



ITEM 1.
These proceedings often involve complex questions of fact and law and may require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend.
We defend ourselves vigorously against any such claims.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which we were a party.
ITEM 1A.
You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in evaluating our business.
31 



Table of Contents  



The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors.
The future trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: 



    •   our results of operations and financial performance;    



    •   general economic, industry and market conditions worldwide;    



    •   our ability to outperform the market, and outperform at a level that meets or exceeds our investors’ expectations;    



    •   whether our guidance meets the expectations of our investors;    



    •   the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock;    



    •   developments generally affecting the semiconductor industry;    



    •   commencement of or developments relating to our involvement in litigation;    



    •   investor perceptions of us and our business strategies;    



    •   changes in securities analysts’ expectations or our failure to meet those expectations;    



    •   actions by institutional or other large stockholders;    



    •   terrorist acts or acts of war;    



    •   actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations;    



    •   actual or anticipated manufacturing capacity limitations;    



    •   developments with respect to intellectual property rights;    



    •   introduction of new products by us or our competitors;    



    •   our sale of common stock or other securities in the future;    



    •   conditions and trends in technology industries;    



    •   our loss of key customers;    



    •   changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors;    



    •   any mergers, acquisitions or divestitures of assets undertaken by us;    



    •   government debt default;    



    •   government policies and regulations on international trade restrictions and corporate taxes, including the impact of the 2017 Tax Act;    



    •   our ability to develop new products, enter new market segments, gain market share, manage litigation risk, diversify our customer base and successfully secure manufacturing capacity;    



    •   our ability to increase our gross margins;    



    •   market reactions to guidance from other semiconductor companies or third-party research groups;    



32 



Table of Contents  



    •   market reactions to merger and acquisition activities in the semiconductor industry, and rumors or expectations of further consolidation in the industry;    



    •   investments in sales and marketing resources to enter new markets;    



    •   costs of increasing wafer capacity and qualifying additional third-party wafer fabrication facilities;    



    •   our ability to pay quarterly cash dividends to stockholders; and,    



    •   changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets.
In addition, the stock market often experiences substantial volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies.
In recent years, global credit and financial markets experienced disruptions, and may experience disruptions in the future, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability.
The tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
Volatility in the credit markets could severely diminish liquidity and capital availability.
Demand for our products is a function of the health of the economies in the United States, Europe, China and the rest of the world.
We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic disruption or subsequent economic recovery worldwide, in the United States, in our industry, or in the different markets that we serve.
Rising concern of international tariffs, including tariffs applied to goods traded between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding the possibility of instituting tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials.
More specifically, in March and April of 2018, the U.S. and China have applied tariffs to certain of each other’s exports.
The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the U.S. and China specifically carries the risk of negatively affecting China’s overall economic condition, which could have a negative impact on us as we have significant operations in China.
Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and operating results.
We may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis.
consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications);    



    •   our competition, which could adversely impact our selling prices and our potential sales;    



34 



Table of Contents  



    •   our manufacturing costs, including our ability to negotiate with our vendors and our ability to efficiently run our test facility in China;    



    •   manufacturing capacity constraints;    



    •   level of activity in our legal proceedings, which could result in significant legal expenses;    



    •   the impact of the 2017 Tax Act on our income tax provision and cash flows; and,    



    •   stock-based compensation charges primarily resulting from performance and market-based equity awards granted to our employees;    



    •   our operating expenses, including general and administrative expenses, selling and marketing expenses, and research and development expenses relating to products that will not be introduced and will not generate revenue until later periods, if at all.
We may not achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.
Unfavorable changes in our operations, including any of the factors noted above, may have a material adverse effect on our quarterly or annual profitability.
We may not experience growth rates comparable to past years.
In the past, our revenue increased significantly in certain years due to increased sales of certain of our products.
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
In June 2014, the Board of Directors approved a dividend program pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock.
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, statutory requirements of Delaware law, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.
Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.
Our success depends on products that are differentiated in the market, which result in gross margins that have historically been above industry averages.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical and, at various times, has experienced significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand.
These conditions have caused significant variances in product demand and production capacity, as well as rapid erosion of average selling prices.
The industry may experience severe or prolonged downturns in the future, which could result in downward pressure on the price of our products as well as lower demand for our products.
Because significant portions of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any sales shortfall.
35 



Table of Contents  



Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results.
In recent years, there has been a trend toward semiconductor industry consolidation.
We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to improve the leverage of growing research and development costs, strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, or become unable to continue operations unless they find an acquirer or consolidate with another company.
In addition, companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
We believe that semiconductor industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers.
We believe that the application of our products in the consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications markets will continue to account for the majority of our revenue.
In addition, as technology evolves, the ability to integrate the functionalities of various components, including our discrete semiconductor products, onto a single chip and/or onto other components of systems containing our products increases.
We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets required to maintain or expand our business.
Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis.
A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our product markets could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position within these markets.
As we develop new product lines, we must adapt to market conditions that are unfamiliar to us, such as competitors and distribution channels that are different from those we have known in the past.
Some of our new product lines require us to re-equip our labs to test parameters we have not tested in the past.
If we are unable to adapt rapidly to these new and additional conditions, we may not be able to successfully penetrate new markets.
The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: 



    •   timely and efficient completion of process design and device structure improvements;    



    •   timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing, assembly, and test processes;    



    •   the ability to secure and effectively utilize fabrication capacity in different geometries;    



    •   product performance;    



    •   product availability;    



    •   product quality and reliability; and,    



    •   effective marketing, sales and service.
Our customers generally have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources.
Some customers have traditionally used these resources to develop their own products internally.
The future prospects for our products in these markets are dependent in part upon our customers' acceptance of our products as an alternative to their internally developed products.
Future sales prospects also are dependent upon acceptance of third-party sourcing for products as an alternative to in-house development.
Customers may in the future continue to use internally developed components.
They also may decide to develop or acquire components, technologies or products that are similar to, or that may be substituted for, our products.
36 



Table of Contents  



We derive most of our revenue from direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia and have significant operations in Asia, which may expose us to political, cultural, regulatory, economic, foreign exchange, and operational risks.
We derive most of our revenue from customers located in Asia through direct sales or indirect sales through distribution arrangements and value-added reseller agreements with parties located in Asia.
As a result, we are subject to increased risks due to this geographic concentration of business and operations.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, 88% of our revenue was from customers in Asia.
There are risks inherent in doing business in Asia, and internationally in general, including: 



      •   changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the U.S. and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    



      •   trade restrictions, including restrictions imposed by the United States on trading with parties in foreign countries;    



      •   currency exchange rate fluctuations impacting intra-company transactions;    



      •   the fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other foreign currencies, which could affect the competitiveness of our products;    



      •   transportation delays;    



      •   changes in tax regulations in China that may impact our tax status in Chengdu, Hangzhou and other regions where we have significant operations;    



      •   multi-tiered distribution channels that lack visibility to end customer pricing and purchase patterns;    



      •   international political relationships and threats of war;    



      •   terrorism and threats of terrorism;    



      •   epidemics and illnesses;    



      •   work stoppages and infrastructure problems due to adverse weather conditions or natural disasters;    



      •   work stoppages related to employee dissatisfaction;    



      •   economic, social and political instability;    



      •   longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivables;    



      •   enforcing contracts generally; and,    



      •   less effective protection of intellectual property and contractual arrangements.
We depend on a limited number of customers, including distributors, for a significant percentage of our revenue.
Historically, we have generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers, including distributors.
For example, sales to our largest distributor accounted for 20% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We continue to rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue.
37 



Table of Contents  



We are subject to anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA.
We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits, along with various other anti-corruption laws.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws to which we are subject, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our employees and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire.
We have significant operations in Asia, which places us in frequent contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” under the FCPA, resulting in an elevated risk of potential FCPA violations.
Any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws by the U.S. or foreign authorities could harm our reputation and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We receive a significant portion of our revenue from distribution arrangements, value-added resellers and direct customers, and the loss of any one of these distributors, value-added resellers or direct customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position.
We market our products through distribution arrangements and value-added resellers and through our direct sales and applications support organization to customers that include OEMs, ODMs and electronic manufacturing service providers (“EMSs”).
Receivables from our customers are generally not secured by any type of collateral and are subject to the risk of being uncollectible.
Sales to our largest distributor accounted for 20% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We primarily conduct our sales on a purchase order basis, and we do not have any long-term supply commitments.
Moreover, we believe a high percentage of our products are eventually sold to a number of OEMs.
Although we communicate with OEMs in an attempt to achieve “design wins,” which are decisions by OEMs and/or ODMs to incorporate our products, we do not have purchase commitments from these end users.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that the OEMs and/or ODMs will continue to incorporate our ICs into their products.
OEM technical specifications and requirements can change rapidly, and we may not have products that fit new specifications from an end-customer for whom we have had previous design wins.
We cannot be certain that we will continue to achieve design wins from large OEMs, that our direct customers will continue to be successful in selling to the OEMs, or that the OEMs will be successful in selling products which incorporate our ICs.
Due to the nature of our business as a component supplier, we may have difficulty both in accurately predicting our future revenue and appropriately managing our expenses.
Because we provide components for end products and systems, demand for our products is influenced by our customers’ end product demand.
As a result, we may have difficulty in accurately forecasting our revenue and expenses.
Our revenue depends on the timing, size, and speed of commercial introductions of end products and systems that incorporate our products, all of which are inherently difficult to forecast, as well as the ongoing demand for previously introduced end products and systems.
In addition, demand for our products is influenced by our customers’ ability to manage their inventory.
Our sales to distributors are subject to higher volatility because they service demand from multiple levels of the supply chain which, in itself, is inherently difficult to forecast.
Our ability to increase product sales and revenue may be constrained by the manufacturing capacity of our suppliers.
Although we provide our suppliers with rolling forecasts of our production requirements, their ability to provide wafers to us is limited by the available capacity, particularly capacity in the geometries we require, at the facilities in which they manufacture wafers for us.
As a result, this lack of capacity has at times constrained our product sales and revenue growth.
In addition, an increased need for capacity to meet internal demands or demands of other customers could cause our suppliers to reduce capacity available to us.
Our suppliers may also require us to pay amounts in excess of contracted or anticipated amounts for wafer deliveries or require us to make other concessions in order to acquire the wafer supply necessary to meet our customer requirements.
In addition, if we experience supply delays or limitations, our customers may reduce their purchase levels with us and/or seek alternative solutions to meet their demand, which could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.
Delays in increasing third-party manufacturing capacity may also limit our ability to meet customer demand.
38 



Table of Contents  



We currently depend on third-party suppliers to provide us with wafers for our products.
We have a supply arrangement with certain suppliers for the production of wafers.
While certain aspects of our relationship with these suppliers are contractual, many important aspects of this relationship depend on our suppliers’ continued cooperation and our management of the supplier relationships.
In addition, the fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and precise process.
Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous ICs on each wafer to be non-functional.
This could potentially reduce yields.
The failure of our suppliers to supply us wafers at acceptable yields could prevent us from fulfilling our customer orders for our products and would likely cause a decline in our revenue.
Further, as is common in the semiconductor industry, our customers may reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice.
We might not be able to deliver our products on a timely basis if our relationships with our assembly and test subcontractors are disrupted or terminated.
We do not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality because all of our products are assembled by third-party subcontractors and a portion of our testing is currently performed by third-party subcontractors.
Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we were forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products.
In addition, events such as global economic crises may materially impact our assembly suppliers’ ability to operate.
There may be unanticipated costs associated with adding to or supplementing our third-party suppliers’ manufacturing capacity.
We anticipate that future growth of our business will require increased manufacturing capacity on the part of third-party supply foundries, assembly shops, and testing facilities for our products.
In order to facilitate such growth, we may need to enter into strategic transactions, investments and other activities.
Such activities are subject to a number of risks, including: 



    •   the costs and expense associated with such activities;    



    •   the availability of modern foundries to be developed, acquired, leased or otherwise made available to us or our third-party suppliers;    



    •   the ability of foundries and our third-party suppliers to obtain the advanced equipment used in the production of our products;    



    •   delays in bringing new foundry operations online to meet increased product demand; and    



    •   unforeseen environmental, engineering or manufacturing qualification problems relating to existing or new foundry facilities, including delays in qualification of new foundries by our customers.
These and other risks may affect the ultimate cost and timing of any expansion of our third-party suppliers’ capacity.
39 



Table of Contents  



We purchase inventory in advance based on expected demand for our products, and if demand is not as expected, we may have insufficient or excess inventory, which could adversely impact our financial position.
As a fabless semiconductor company, we purchase our inventory from third-party manufacturers in advance of selling our products.
We place orders with our manufacturers based on existing and expected orders from our customers for particular products.
While most of our contracts with our customers and distributors include lead time requirements and cancellation penalties that are designed to protect us from misalignment between customer orders and inventory levels, we must nonetheless make some predictions when we place orders with our manufacturers.
In December 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was enacted and includes a broad range of tax reforms, including changes to corporate tax rates, business deductions and international tax provisions.
Some of the significant new requirements include, but are not limited to, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation transition tax on previously deferred foreign earnings, a remeasurement of our deferred taxes due to the change in the corporate tax rate, taxation of certain global intangible low-taxed income under the international tax provisions, and limitations on the deductibility of performance-based compensation for officers.
Some of these provisions, such as the deemed repatriation transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets, had immediate accounting implications which resulted in a significant increase in our tax expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In addition, the deemed repatriation transition tax liability, which is payable over eight years, will adversely impact our cash flows and financial condition in future periods.
The calculation of the tax impact and exposures under the 2017 Tax Act is complex.
It requires the collection of information not regularly produced by us, the use of estimates and the exercise of significant judgment in determining our tax provision.
Furthermore, we will need to evaluate whether changes to our existing processes and controls are necessary to address the financial reporting effects.
The complexity of calculating our tax provision may result in errors that could result in restatements of our financial statements.
Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws such as the 2017 Tax Act, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof and discrete items such as future exercises or dispositions of stock options and restricted stock releases.
We reached a resolution with the IRS in April 2015 and recorded a one-time net charge of $2.7 million to our income tax provision in the second quarter of 2015.
We assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
40 



Table of Contents  



Implementation of an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) or other information technology systems could result in significant disruptions to our operations.
From time to time, we may implement new ERP software solutions or upgrade existing systems.
Implementation of these solutions and systems is highly dependent on coordination of system providers and internal business teams.
We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new or upgraded systems and processes, including loss or corruption of financial, business or customer data.
In addition, transitioning to these new systems requires significant capital investments and personnel resources.
System security risks, data protection or privacy breaches, cyber attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations and/or harm our reputation, and any such disruption or harm could cause a reduction in our expected revenue, increase our expenses, negatively impact our results of operation or otherwise adversely affect our stock price.
Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential and proprietary information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns.
The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data on our internal systems, network and servers, such as proprietary business and financial information, and confidential data pertaining to our customers, suppliers and business partners.
The secure maintenance of sensitive information on our networks and the protection features of our solutions are both critical to our operations and business strategy.
We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data.
However, these security measures cannot provide absolute security.
Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and solutions, any destructive or intrusive breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.
Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time.
We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and our remediation efforts may be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive.
Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes.
From time to time we are a party to various legal proceedings.
We and/or our customers could also be prevented from selling some or all of our products.
Moreover, our customers and end-users could decide not to use our products, and our products and our customers’ accounts payable to us could be seized.
Finally, interim developments in these proceedings could increase the volatility in our stock price as the market assesses the impact of such developments on the likelihood that we will or will not ultimately prevail in these proceedings.
Given our inability to control the timing and nature of significant events in our legal proceedings that either have arisen or may arise, our legal expenses are difficult to forecast and may vary substantially from our publicly disclosed forecasts with respect to any given quarter, which could contribute to increased volatility in our stock price and financial condition.
Historically, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with various legal proceedings that vary with the level of activity in the proceeding.
It is difficult for us to forecast our legal expenses for any given quarter, which adversely affects our ability to forecast our expected results of operations in general.
We may also be subject to unanticipated legal proceedings, which would result in us incurring unexpected legal expenses.
41 



Table of Contents  



Future legal proceedings may divert our financial and management resources.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights.
Such litigation is very costly.
In addition, in connection with these legal proceedings, we may be required to post bonds to defend our intellectual property rights in certain countries for an indefinite period of time, until such dispute is resolved.
If our legal expenses materially increase or exceed anticipated amounts, our capital resources and financial condition could be adversely affected.
Failure to protect our proprietary technologies or maintain the right to certain technologies may negatively affect our ability to compete.
We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies.
Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our products.
We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, and we also rely on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees’ commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our technology, know-how and processes.
Despite the precautions we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future technologies or products, or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technologies, including through patents.
However, there can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others.
Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States.
Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could materially harm our business.
The market for government-backed student loan auction-rate securities has suffered a decline in liquidity which may impact the liquidity and potential value of our investment portfolio.
The market for government-backed student loan auction-rate securities became illiquid in 2008.
Since 2008, we have redeemed 87% of the original portfolio of our auction-rate securities at par and continue to hold $5.6 million in principal amount as of March 31, 2018.
The underlying maturity of these auction-rate securities is up to 30 years.
We have historically recorded temporary and other-than-temporary impairment charges on these investments.
The valuation is subject to fluctuations in the future, which will depend on many factors, including the quality of underlying collateral, estimated time for liquidity including potential to be called or restructured, underlying final maturity, insurance guaranty and market conditions, among others.
If the accounting rules for these securities change, there may be an adverse impact on our earnings.
We face risks in connection with our internal control over financial reporting.
Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports.
Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations.
In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date, which may impact the reliability of our financial reporting and financial statements.
Our products must meet specifications, and undetected defects and failures may occur, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products and may expose us to product liability risk.
Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance, and reliability that our products must meet.
ICs as complex as ours often encounter development delays and may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments, which might require product replacement or recall.
Further, our third-party manufacturing processes or changes thereof, or raw material used in the manufacturing processes may cause our products to fail.
We have from time to time in the past experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems.
Our standard warranty period is generally one to two years, which exposes us to significant risks of claims for defects and failures.
42 



Table of Contents  



In addition, product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products.
Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims.
The price and availability of commodities (e.g., gold, copper and silicon) may adversely impact our ability to deliver our products in a timely and cost-effective manner, and may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Our products incorporate commodities such as gold, copper and silicon.
An increase in the price or a decrease in the availability of these commodities and similar commodities that we use could negatively impact our business and results of operations.
Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other foreign currencies, including the Renminbi, may adversely affect results of operations.
Our manufacturing and packaging suppliers are and will continue to be primarily located in China for the foreseeable future.
In addition, our sales are primarily denominated in the U.S. Dollar.
If the value of the U.S Dollar rises against other currencies, it may adversely affect the demand for our products in international markets, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations.
We incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses related to the timing of payments for transactions between the U.S. and our foreign subsidiaries, which are reported in interest and other income in the statements of operations.
Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the foreign currencies could increase the amount of foreign currency exchange losses we record, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.
Our business is subject to various governmental laws and regulations, and compliance with these regulations may impact our revenue and cause us to incur significant expense.
Our business is subject to various significant laws and other legal requirements imposed by the U.S. and other countries we conduct business with, including export control laws such the Export Administration Act, the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") and other laws, regulations and requirements governing international trade and technology transfer.
These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have generally become more stringent over time.
We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations.
In addition, if our customers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend sales to these customers, which could negatively impact our results of operations.
We must conform the manufacture and distribution of our products to various laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in many countries as these requirements change.
If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, we could be required to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products commercially until the products are brought into compliance.
Environmental laws and regulations could cause a disruption in our business and operations.
We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products.
Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries and countries in Asia.
There can be no assurance that similar laws and regulations will not be implemented in other jurisdictions resulting in additional costs, possible delays in delivering products, and even the discontinuance of existing and planned future product replacements if the cost were to become prohibitive.
43 



Table of Contents  



We and our manufacturing partners are or will be subject to extensive Chinese government regulation, and the benefit of various incentives from Chinese governments that we and our manufacturing partners receive may be reduced or eliminated, which could increase our costs or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China.
The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China.
Additionally, China’s government has implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China.
It exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies.
Personal privacy, cyber security, and data protection are becoming increasingly significant issues in China.
To address these issues, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress promulgated the Cyber Security Law of the People’s Republic of China (the “Cyber Security Law”), which took effect on June 1, 2017.
The Cyber Security Law sets forth various requirements relating to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data, among other things.
Various Chinese agencies are expected to issue additional regulations in the future to define these requirements more precisely.
These requirements may increase our costs of compliance.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these regulatory requirements.
Any failure to comply with the Cyber Security Law and the relevant regulations and policies could result in further cost and liability to us and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Additionally, increased costs to comply with, and other burdens imposed by, the Cyber Security Law and relevant regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our suppliers, vendors and other service providers, as well as our customers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Any additional new regulations or the amendment or modification of previously implemented regulations could require us and our manufacturing partners to change our business plans, increase our costs, or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
The Chinese government and provincial and local governments also have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to encourage the development of the semiconductor industry in China.
Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to our manufacturing partners and to us with respect to our facilities in China.
Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time.
There are inherent risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing and testing facilities in China, which could increase product costs or cause a delay in product shipments.
We face the following risks, among others, with respect to our operations in China: 



    •   inability to hire and maintain a qualified workforce;    



    •   inability to maintain appropriate and acceptable manufacturing controls; and,    



    •   higher than anticipated overhead and other costs of operation.
In addition, if capacity restraints result in significant delays in product shipments, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.
The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased over time and could do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profits.
Average selling prices of semiconductor products in the markets we serve have historically decreased over time.
44 



Table of Contents  



Because of the lengthy sales cycles for our products and the fixed nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our products.
The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development plans and expenditures may be made up to two years or more in advance of any sales.
It generally takes us up to 12 months or more to design and manufacture a new product prototype.
Only after we have a prototype do we introduce the product to the market and begin selling efforts in an attempt to achieve design wins.
This sales process requires us to expend significant sales and marketing resources without any assurance of success.
Volume production of products that use our ICs, if any, may not be achieved for an additional period of time after an initial sale.
Sales cycles for our products are lengthy for a number of reasons, including: 



    •   our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our products before they place a purchase order;    



    •   the commercial adoption of our products by OEMs and ODMs is typically limited during the initial release of their product to evaluate product performance and consumer demand;    



    •   our products must be designed into our customers’ products or systems; and,    



    •   the development and commercial introduction of our customers’ products incorporating new technologies frequently are delayed.
As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenue.
The lengthy sales cycles of our products also make forecasting the volume and timing of orders difficult.
In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their orders.
Our sales are made by purchase orders.
Because industry practice allows customers to reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice, backlog is not always a good indicator of our future sales.
Our success depends on our investment of significant resources in research and development.
Our success depends on us investing significant amounts of resources into research and development.
We expect to have to continue to invest heavily in research and development in the future in order to continue to innovate and introduce new products in a timely manner and increase our revenue and profitability.
In addition, if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase.
If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline.
Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue, which could negatively impact our financial results.
In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development.
The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could affect our operations or impair our ability to grow our business.
Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel.
We are particularly dependent on the continued services of our key executives, including Michael Hsing, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who founded our company and developed our proprietary process technology.
In addition, personnel with highly skilled analog and mixed-signal design engineering expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain existing key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified personnel with critical capabilities in the future.
If we are unable to retain the services of existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees quickly enough to meet the demands of our business, including design cycles, our business could be harmed.
Furthermore, if we lose key personnel, the search for a qualified replacement and the transition could interrupt our operations as the search could take us longer than expected and divert management resources, and the newly hired employee could take longer than expected to integrate into the team.
45 



Table of Contents  



If we fail to retain key employees in our sales, applications, finance and legal staff or to make continued improvements to our internal systems, particularly in the accounting and finance area, our business may suffer.
If we fail to continue to adequately staff our sales, applications, financial and legal staff, maintain or upgrade our business systems and maintain internal control that meet the demands of our business, our ability to operate effectively will suffer.
The operation of our business also depends upon our ability to retain these employees, as these employees hold a significant amount of institutional knowledge about us and our products, and, if they were to terminate their employment, our sales and internal control over financial reporting could be adversely affected.
We intend to continue to expand our operations, which may strain our resources and increase our operating expenses.
We plan to continue to expand our domestic and foreign operations through internal growth, strategic relationships, and/or acquisitions.
We expect that any such expansion will strain our systems and operational and financial controls.
In addition, we are likely to incur significantly higher operating costs.
To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and controls, as well as hire experienced administrative and financial personnel.
If we fail to do so, our growth will be limited.
We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any company or business that we acquire.
As a part of our business strategy, from time to time we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, enhance our design capability or offer other competitive opportunities.
As a result of completing acquisitions, we could use a significant portion of our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, issue equity securities that would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt or contingent liabilities, or incur impairment charges related to goodwill or other acquisition-related intangibles.
In addition, we may be unable to identify or complete prospective acquisitions for various reasons, including competition from other companies in the semiconductor industry, the valuation expectations of acquisition candidates and applicable antitrust laws or related regulations.
If we are unable to identify and complete acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully expand our business and product offerings.
In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating any acquired company or business into our operations or if integration is more difficult than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could harm our business and result in our failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions.
Some of the risks that may adversely affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from the acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: 



    •   unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired companies or businesses;    



    •   conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations;    



    •   coordinating new product and process development;    



    •   hiring additional management and other critical personnel;    



    •   increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;    



    •   difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how;    



    •   difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products;    



    •   the risk of undisclosed liabilities of the acquired businesses and potential legal disputes with founders or stockholders of acquired companies;    



    •   our inability to commercialize acquired technologies;    



    •   the risk that the future business potential as projected is not realized and as a result, we may be required to take a charge to earnings that would impact our profitability;    



46 



Table of Contents  



    •   the need to take impairment charges or write-downs with respect to acquired assets and technologies;    



    •   difficulties in assessing the fair value of earn-out arrangements;    



    •   diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and    



    •   adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers.
In addition, third parties may be interested in acquiring us.
We will consider and discuss such transactions as we deem appropriate.
Such potential transactions may diver the attention of management, and cause us to incur various costs and expenses in investigating and evaluating such transactions, whether or not they are consummated.
If we issue additional shares of stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders.
We also issue restricted stock units to employees, which convert into shares of common stock upon vesting.
Any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution of our stockholders.
In addition, the issuance of a significant amount of our common stock may result in additional regulatory requirements, such as stockholder approval.
We compete against many companies with substantially greater financial and other resources, and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively.
The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue.
Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit applications and design talent, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products.
We compete with domestic and non-domestic semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products.
We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with many manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength.
The number of our competitors has grown due to the expansion of the market segments in which we participate.
We do not have any control over these analysts.
Major earthquakes or other natural disasters and resulting systems outages may cause us significant losses.
Our corporate headquarters, the production facilities of our third-party wafer suppliers, our IC testing and manufacturing facilities, a portion of our assembly and research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in or near seismically active regions and are subject to periodic earthquakes.
We do not maintain earthquake insurance and could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake.
Much of our revenue, as well as our manufacturers and assemblers, are concentrated in Asia, particularly in China.
Such concentration increases the risk that other natural disasters, labor strikes, terrorism, war, political unrest, epidemics, and/or health advisories could disrupt our operations.
In addition, we rely heavily on our internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties to manage our operations efficiently and effectively.
Any of these are subject to failure due to a natural disaster or other disruption.
47 



Table of Contents  



ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS  



   Exhibit No.
Description  



      31.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1*   Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101.INS   XBRL Instance    



   101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema   



   101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation   



   101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition   



   101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels   



   101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation   



* This exhibit shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any filings.
48 



Table of Contents  



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC
