ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(in thousands, except par value) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
3  



 Table of Contents   



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 



(in thousands, except per-share amounts) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
4  



 Table of Contents   



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



(in thousands) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
5  



 Table of Contents   



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  



(in thousands, except per-share amounts) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
6  



 Table of Contents   



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



(in thousands) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
7  



 Table of Contents   



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited) 



1.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION 



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by Monolithic Power Systems, Inc. (the “Company” or “MPS”) in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted in accordance with these accounting principles, rules and regulations.
The information in this report should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on  March 1, 2019.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
The financial statements contained in this Form 10-Q are not necessarily indicative of the results that  may be expected for the year ending  December 31, 2019 or for any other future periods.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 



Except for the changes related to leases discussed in Note 6, there have been no other changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three and six months ended  June 30, 2019, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2018.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncement 



In  February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires entities to recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheets for leases with terms greater than 12 months.
In addition, the standard applies to leases embedded in service or other arrangements.
The Company adopted the standard on  January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective method and did not restate comparative periods, as permitted by the standard.
In addition, the Company elected the transition practical expedients to not reassess its contracts that existed prior to  January 1, 2019.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized ROU assets and lease liabilities of its outstanding operating leases on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, primarily related to real estate.
The adoption did not have a material impact on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations or the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
See Note 6 for further discussion.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted as of  June 30, 2019 



In  August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework — Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which changes certain disclosure requirements, including those related to Level 3 fair value measurements.
The standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its disclosures.
In  January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment.
The guidance removes step two of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation.
A goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary.
The standard will be applied prospectively, and will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its annual goodwill impairment test.
8  



 Table of Contents   



In  June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), which introduces a model based on expected losses to estimate credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
In addition, for available-for-sale debt securities, entities will be required to recognize an allowance for credit losses rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.
The standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2018.
Entities will apply the standard by recording a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and disclosures.
2.
REVENUE RECOGNITION 



Revenue from Product Sales 



The Company generates revenue primarily from product sales, which include assembled and tested integrated circuits, as well as dies in wafer form.
These product sales were 99% and 98% of the Company’s total revenue for the three months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 99% and 97% of the Company’s total revenue for the six months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The remaining revenue primarily includes royalty revenue from licensing arrangements and revenue from wafer testing services performed for third parties, which have not been significant in all periods presented.
See Note 8 for the disaggregation of the Company’s revenue by geographic regions and by product families.
The Company sells its products primarily through third-party distributors, value-added resellers, original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers and electronic manufacturing service providers.
For the three months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, 77% and 86%, respectively, of the Company’s sales were made through distribution arrangements.
For the six months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, 80% and 87%, respectively, of the Company’s sales were made through distribution arrangements.
These distribution arrangements contain enforceable rights and obligations specific to those distributors and not the end customers.
Purchase orders, which are generally governed by sales agreements or the Company's standard terms of sale, set the final terms for unit price, quantity, shipping and payment agreed by both parties.
The Company considers purchase orders to be the contracts with customers.
The unit price as stated on the purchase orders is considered the observable, stand-alone selling price for the arrangements.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of the promised goods or services to its customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company excludes taxes assessed by government authorities, such as sales taxes, from revenue.
Product sales consist of a single performance obligation that the Company satisfies at a point in time.
The Company recognizes product revenue from distributors and direct end customers when the following events have occurred: (a) the Company has transferred physical possession of the products, (b) the Company has a present right to payment, (c) the customer has legal title to the products, and (d) the customer bears significant risks and rewards of ownership of the products.
In accordance with the shipping terms specified in the contracts, these criteria are generally met when the products are shipped from the Company’s facilities (such as the “Ex Works” shipping term) or delivered to the customers’ locations (such as the “Delivered Duty Paid” shipping term).
Under certain consignment agreements, revenue is not recognized when the products are shipped and delivered to be held at customers’ designated locations because the Company continues to control the products and retain ownership, and the customers do not have an unconditional obligation to pay.
The Company recognizes revenue when the customers consume the products from the consigned inventory locations or, in some cases, after a 60-day period from the delivery date has passed, at which time control transfers to the customers and the Company invoices them for payment.
Variable Consideration 



The Company accounts for price adjustment and stock rotation rights as variable consideration that reduces the transaction price, and recognizes that reduction in the same period the associated revenue is recognized.
Three U.S.-based distributors have price adjustment rights when they sell the Company’s products to their end customers at a price that is lower than the distribution price invoiced by the Company.
When the Company receives claims from the distributors that products have been sold to the end customers at the lower price, the Company issues the distributors credit memos for the price adjustments.
Other U.S. distributors and non-U.S. distributors, which make up the majority of the Company’s total sales to distributors, do not have price adjustment rights.
The Company records a credit against accounts receivable for the estimated price adjustments, with a corresponding reduction to revenue.
In addition, certain distributors have limited stock rotation rights that permit the return of a small percentage of the previous six months’ purchases in accordance with the contract terms.
The Company estimates the stock rotation returns based on an analysis of historical returns, and the current level of inventory in the distribution channel.
The Company records a liability for the stock rotation reserve, with a corresponding reduction to revenue.
In addition, the Company recognizes an asset for product returns which represents the right to recover products from the customers related to stock rotations, with a corresponding reduction to cost of revenue.
9  



 Table of Contents   



Contract Balances 



The Company records a receivable when it has an unconditional right to receive consideration after the performance obligations are satisfied.
As of  June 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, accounts receivable totaled $55.4 million and $55.2 million, respectively.
The Company did not record any allowance for doubtful accounts as of  June 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018.
For certain customers located in Asia, the Company requires cash payments 2 weeks before the products are scheduled to be shipped to the customers.
The Company records these payments received in advance of performance as customer prepayments within current accrued liabilities.
As of  June 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, customer prepayments totaled $3.2 million and $2.5 million, respectively.
The increase in the customer prepayment balance for the six months ended  June 30, 2019 resulted from an increase in unfulfilled customer orders for which the Company has received payments.
For the six months ended  June 30, 2019, the Company recognized $2.5 million of revenue that was included in the customer prepayment balance as of  December 31, 2018.
Contract Costs 



 The Company pays sales commissions based on the achievement of pre-determined product sales targets.
As the Company recognizes product sales at a point in time, sales commissions are expensed as incurred.
Practical Expedients 



The Company’s standard payment terms generally require customers to pay 30 to 60 days after the Company satisfies the performance obligations.
For those customers who are required to pay in advance, the Company satisfies the performance obligations generally within 2 weeks.
The Company has elected not to determine whether contacts with customers contain significant financing components.
As of  June 30, 2019, the Company’s unsatisfied performance obligations primarily included products held in consignment arrangements and customer purchase orders for products that the Company has not yet shipped.
Because the Company expects to fulfill these performance obligations within one year, the Company has elected not to disclose the amount of these remaining performance obligations or the timing of recognition.
3.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 



2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2014 Plan”) 



The Board of Directors adopted the 2014 Plan in  April 2013, and the stockholders approved it in  June 2013.
In  October 2014, the Board of Directors approved certain amendments to the 2014 Plan.
The 2014 Plan, as amended, became effective on  November 13, 2014 and provides for the issuance of up to 5.5 million shares.
The 2014 Plan will expire on  November 13, 2024.
As of  June 30, 2019, 1.6 million shares remained available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan.
Stock-Based Compensation Expense 



The Company recognized stock-based compensation expenses as follows (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Restricted Stock Units (“RSUs”) 



The Company’s RSUs include time-based RSUs, RSUs with performance conditions (“PSUs”), RSUs with market conditions (“MSUs”), and RSUs with both market and performance conditions (“MPSUs”).
Vesting of awards with performance conditions or market conditions is subject to the achievement of pre-determined performance goals and the approval of such achievement by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”).
All awards include service conditions which require continued employment with the Company.
10  



 Table of Contents   



A summary of RSU activity is presented in the table below (in thousands, except per-share amounts): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The intrinsic value related to vested RSUs was $26.3 million and $15.6 million for the three months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The intrinsic value related to vested RSUs was $84.0 million and $65.2 million for the six months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of  June 30, 2019, the total intrinsic value of all outstanding RSUs was $551.2 million, based on the closing stock price of $135.78.
As of  June 30, 2019, unamortized compensation expense related to all outstanding RSUs was $136.5 million with a weighted-average remaining recognition period of approximately 3.5 years.
Cash proceeds from vested PSUs with a purchase price totaled $12.5 million and $8.7 million for the six months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Time-Based RSUs: 



For the six months ended  June 30, 2019, the Compensation Committee granted 44,000 RSUs with service conditions to non-executive employees and non-employee directors.
The RSUs vest over 4 years for employees and 1 year for directors, subject to continued service with the Company.
2019 PSUs: 



In  February 2019, the Compensation Committee granted 151,000 PSUs to the executive officers, which represent a target number of shares to be earned based on the Company’s average 2-year (2019 and 2020) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2019 Executive PSUs”).
The maximum number of shares that an executive officer can earn is 300% of the target number of the 2019 Executive PSUs.
50% of the 2019 Executive PSUs will vest in the first quarter of 2021 if the pre-determined performance goals are met during the performance period.
The remaining 2019 Executive PSUs will vest over the following 2 years on a quarterly basis.
Assuming the achievement of the highest level of performance goals, the total stock-based compensation cost for the 2019 Executive PSUs is $46.6 million.
The 2019 Executive PSUs contain a purchase price feature, which requires the employees to pay the Company $30 per share upon vesting of the shares.
Shares that do not vest will not be subject to the purchase price payment.
The Company determined the grant date fair value of the 2019 Executive PSUs using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: stock price of $130.67, expected term of 2.6 years, expected volatility of 29.0% and risk-free interest rate of 2.5%.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) 



No shares were issued under the ESPP for the three months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018.
For the six months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, 14,000 and 18,000 shares, respectively, were issued under the ESPP.
As of  June 30, 2019, 4.5 million shares were available for future issuance.
11  



 Table of Contents   



The intrinsic value of the shares issued was $0.3 million and $0.5 million for the six months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of  June 30, 2019, the unamortized expense was $0.1 million, which will be recognized through the third quarter of 2019.
The Black-Scholes model was used to value the employee stock purchase rights with the following weighted-average assumptions:  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Cash proceeds from the shares issued under the ESPP were $1.6 million for both the six months ended  June 30, 2019 and 2018.
4.
BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS 



Inventories  



Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Other Current Assets 



Other current assets consist of the following (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Other Long-Term Assets 



Other long-term assets consist of the following (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 12  



 Table of Contents   



Other Accrued Liabilities 



Other accrued liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Other Long-Term Liabilities 



Other long-term liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



5.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION 



In  March 2019, the Company completed the purchase of an office building and land located in Kirkland, Washington for $52.9 million in cash.
The property also has in-place leases which were assumed by the Company.
The Company accounted for the purchase as an asset acquisition and capitalized $0.4 million of transaction costs.
The purchase price allocation was as follows (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The fair value of the building was determined based on the income approach, which considered the discounted cash flows and direct capitalization analysis, and the sales comparison approach.
The fair value of land was determined based on the sales comparison approach.
The fair value of the in-place leases was determined primarily based on the analysis of the economic benefits of certain cost savings to acquire new tenants.
The building is depreciated over a useful life of 40 years and the in-place leases are amortized over the average remaining lease terms of 3.5 years.
Land is not depreciated.
6.
LEASES 



Lessee 



The Company has operating leases for administrative and sales and marketing offices, manufacturing operations and research and development facilities, employee housing units, and certain equipment.
The leases have remaining lease terms from less than a year to 4 years.
Some of the leases include options to renew the lease term for up to 5 years or on a month-to-month basis.
The Company does not have finance lease arrangements.
13  



 Table of Contents   



As permitted by Topic 842, the Company does not recognize leases with a term of 12 months or less at the commencement date on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
For those lease arrangements that contain lease and nonlease components, the Company has elected the practical expedient to combine them as single lease components.
As of  June 30, 2019, operating lease ROU assets totaled $2.7 million and operating lease liabilities totaled $2.0 million.
The Company recognizes operating lease costs on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Because the implicit rate in each lease is not readily determinable, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate to determine the present value of the remaining lease payments.
The following tables summarize certain information related to the leases (in thousands, except for years and percentages): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



(1) For the six months ended  June 30, 2019, the amount includes $2.2 million for operating leases existing on  January 1, 2019.
As of  June 30, 2019, the maturities of the lease liabilities are as follows (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 14  



 Table of Contents   



Lessor  



The Company owns certain office buildings and leases a portion of these properties to third parties under arrangements that are classified as operating leases.
The leases have remaining lease terms from less than a year to 5 years.
Some of the leases include options to renew the lease term for up to 5 years.
For the three and six months ended  June 30, 2019, income related to lease payments was $0.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
As of  June 30, 2019, future income related to lease payments is as follows (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



7.
NET INCOME PER SHARE 



Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted net income per share reflects the potential dilution that would occur if outstanding securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common shares, and calculated using the treasury stock method.
Contingently issuable shares, including equity awards with performance conditions or market conditions, are considered outstanding common shares and included in the basic net income per share as of the date that all necessary conditions to earn the awards have been satisfied.
Prior to the end of the contingency period, the number of contingently issuable shares included in the diluted net income per share is based on the number of shares, if any, that would be issuable under the terms of the arrangement at the end of the reporting period.
The Company’s outstanding RSUs contain forfeitable rights to receive cash dividend equivalents, which are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest.
Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill their service requirement and the awards do not vest.
Accordingly, these awards are not treated as participating securities in the net income per share calculation.
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share (in thousands, except per-share amounts):  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



8.
SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION 



The Company operates in one reportable segment that includes the design, development, marketing and sale of high-performance analog solutions for the computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer markets.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance.
The Company derives a majority of its revenue from sales to customers located outside North America, with geographic revenue based on the customers’ ship-to locations.
15  



 Table of Contents   



The Company sells its products primarily through third-party distributors and value-added resellers, and directly to original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers and electronic manufacturing service providers.
The following table summarizes those customers with sales equal to 10% or more of the Company's total revenue, or with accounts receivable balances equal to 10% or more of the Company’s total accounts receivable:  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



* Represents less than 10%.
The Company’s agreements with third-party distributors were made in the ordinary course of business and  may be terminated with or without cause by these customers with advance notice.
Although the Company  may experience a short-term disruption in the distribution of its products and a short-term decline in revenue if its agreement with any of these customers was terminated, the Company believes that such termination would not have a material adverse effect on its financial statements because it would be able to engage alternative distributors, resellers and other distribution channels to deliver its products to end customers within a short period following the termination of the agreement with the customer.
The following is a summary of revenue by geographic regions (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following is a summary of revenue by product family (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following is a summary of property and equipment, net, by geographic regions (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 16  



 Table of Contents   



9.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 



Product Warranties 



The following table presents changes in the warranty reserve (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Purchase Commitments 



The Company has outstanding purchase commitments with its suppliers and other parties that require the future purchase of goods or services, which primarily consist of wafer purchases, assembly and other manufacturing services, construction services and license arrangements.
As of  June 30, 2019, the Company’s outstanding purchase obligations totaled approximately $71.4 million.
These proceedings often involve complex questions of fact and law and  may require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend.
The Company defends itself vigorously against any such claims.
As of  June 30, 2019, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which the Company was a party.
10.
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, INVESTMENTS AND RESTRICTED CASH 



The following is a summary of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and investments (in thousands):  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The contractual maturities of the Company’s short-term and long-term available-for-sale investments are as follows (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 17  



 Table of Contents   



The following tables summarize the unrealized gain and loss positions related to the Company’s available-for sale investments (in thousands):  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



As of  June 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, unrealized losses that had been in a continuous loss position for 12 months or longer were $0.5 million and $1.6 million, respectively.
As of  June 30, 2019, the Company did not consider any of its available-for-sale investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
Restricted Cash 



The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash reported on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets to the amounts reported on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Restricted cash includes a security deposit that is set aside in a bank account and cannot be withdrawn by the Company under the terms of a lease agreement.
The restriction will end and any unused amount will be returned to the Company upon the expiration of the lease.
11.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  



The following tables summarize the fair value measurement of the financial assets (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 18  



 Table of Contents   



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company’s level 3 assets consist of government-backed student loan auction-rate securities.
The following table provides a rollforward of the fair value of the auction-rate securities (in thousands):  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The Company determined the fair value of the auction-rate securities using a discounted cash flow model with the following assumptions:  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



12.
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 



The following table summarizes the deferred compensation plan balances on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 19  



 Table of Contents   



13.
INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME, NET 



The components of interest and other income, net, are as follows (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



14.
INCOME TAXES  



The income tax provision for interim periods is generally determined using an estimate of the Company’s annual effective tax rate and adjusted for discrete items, if any, in the relevant period.
Each quarter the estimate of the annual effective tax rate is updated, and if the Company’s estimated tax rate changes, a cumulative adjustment is made.
The income tax expense for the three months ended  June 30, 2019 was $1.7 million, or 7.4% of pre-tax income.
The income tax expense for the six months ended  June 30, 2019 was $0.5 million, or 1.1% of pre-tax income.
The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income from the Company’s subsidiaries in Bermuda and China being taxed at lower statutory tax rates, and the benefit obtained from certain discrete items recognized in the period, including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.
The decrease in the effective tax rate relative to the federal statutory rate was partially offset by the inclusion of the global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") tax.
The income tax expense for the three months ended  June 30, 2018 was $2.9 million, or 10.7% of pre-tax income.
The income tax expense for the six months ended  June 30, 2018 was $3.5 million, or 7.1% of pre-tax income.
The effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign income from the Company’s subsidiaries in Bermuda and China being taxed at lower statutory tax rates, and the benefit obtained from certain discrete items recognized in the period, including excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.
The decrease in the effective tax rate relative to the federal statutory rate was partially offset by the inclusion of the GILTI tax.
For the three and six months ended  June 30, 2019, the Company’s effective tax rate included the estimated impact of $10.1 million and $25.6 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions that was included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost.
For the three and six months ended  June 30, 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate included the estimated impact of $15.5 million and $27.9 million, respectively, related to the GILTI provisions.
The Company’s uncertain tax positions relate to the allocation of income and deductions between the Company’s global entities and to the determination of the research and development tax credit.
It is reasonably possible that over the next twelve-month period, the Company  may experience increases or decreases in its unrecognized tax benefits.
However, it is not possible to determine either the magnitude or the range of increases or decreases at this time.
In  July 2015, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, invalidating the Treasury regulations that require participants in qualified intercompany cost-sharing arrangements to share stock-based compensation costs.
A final decision was issued by the Tax Court in  December 2015, and the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") appealed the decision in  June 2016.
In  June 2019, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the cost-sharing regulations.
As of  June 30, 2019, it has not been determined if this ruling will be appealed.
Due to the uncertainty surrounding the status of the current regulations, the Company has not recorded any adjustments as of  June 30, 2019.
The Company will continue to monitor and evaluate the impact of any new developments on its financial statements.
20  



 Table of Contents   



15.
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 



The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss (in thousands): 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



16.
DIVIDENDS AND DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS 



Cash Dividend Program 



In  June 2014, the Board of Directors approved a dividend program pursuant to which the Company intends to pay quarterly cash dividends on its common stock.
Based on the Company’s historical practice, stockholders of record as of the last business day of the quarter are entitled to receive the quarterly cash dividends when and if declared by the Board of Directors, which are payable to the stockholders in the following month.
The Board of Directors declared the following cash dividends (in thousands, except per-share amounts):  



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



As of  June 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, accrued dividends totaled $17.3 million and $12.8 million, respectively.
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, and other factors that the Board of Directors  may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of the stockholders.
The Company anticipates that cash used for future dividend payments will come from its current domestic cash, cash generated from ongoing U.S. operations, and cash repatriated from its Bermuda subsidiary.
Earnings from other foreign subsidiaries will continue to be indefinitely reinvested.
Cash Dividend Equivalent Rights 



Under the Company’s stock plans, outstanding RSUs contain rights to receive cash dividend equivalents, which entitle employees who hold RSUs to the same dividend value per share as holders of common stock.
The dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest.
Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill their requisite service requirement and the awards do not vest.
As of  June 30, 2019 and  December 31, 2018, accrued dividend equivalents totaled $10.2 million and $8.4 million, respectively.
21  

ITEM 1.
These proceedings often involve complex questions of fact and law and may require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend.
We defend ourselves vigorously against any such claims.
As of June 30, 2019, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which we were a party.
ITEM 1A.
You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission in evaluating our business.
30  



 Table of Contents   



In addition, the stock market often experiences substantial volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies.
In recent years, global credit and financial markets experienced disruptions, and may experience disruptions in the future, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability.
The tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
Volatility in the credit markets could severely diminish liquidity and capital availability.
Demand for our products is a function of the health of the economies in the United States, Europe, China and the rest of Asia.
Recent changes in international trade policy and rising concern of international tariffs, including tariffs applied to goods traded between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials.
More specifically, there have been several rounds of U.S. tariffs on Chinese goods taking effect in 2018 and 2019, some of which prompted retaliatory Chinese tariffs on U.S. goods.
The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the U.S. and China specifically carries the risk of negatively affecting China’s overall economic condition, which could have a negative impact on us as we have significant operations in China.
Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and operating results.
As a global company headquartered in the U.S., we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that could limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons, including, in certain cases, dealings with or between our employees and subsidiaries.
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.
We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities.
We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments.
In addition, U.S. laws and regulations and sanctions or threat of sanctions that could limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services to our customers may also encourage our customers to develop their own solutions to replace our products or seek to obtain a greater supply of similar or substitute products from our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.
Moreover, U.S. government’s actions targeting exports of certain technologies to China are becoming more pervasive.
For example, in May 2019, President Trump issued an executive order that invoked national emergency economic powers to implement a framework to regulate the acquisition or transfer of information communications technology in transactions that imposed undue national security risks.
These actions could lead to additional restrictions on the export of products that include or enable certain technologies, including products we provide to China-based customers.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical and, at various times, has experienced significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand.
The semiconductor industry is currently experiencing such a downturn.
These conditions have caused significant variances in product demand and production capacity, as well as rapid erosion of average selling prices.
32  



 Table of Contents   



We may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis.
Unfavorable changes in our operations, including any of the factors noted above, may have a material adverse effect on our quarterly or annual profitability.
We may not experience growth rates comparable to past years.
In the past, our revenue increased significantly in certain years due to increased sales of certain of our products.
Our success depends on products that are differentiated in the market, which result in gross margins that have historically been above industry averages.
33  



 Table of Contents   



Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results.
In recent years, there has been a trend toward semiconductor industry consolidation.
We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to improve the leverage of growing research and development costs, strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, or become unable to continue operations unless they find an acquirer or consolidate with another company.
In addition, companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
We believe that semiconductor industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers.
We believe that the application of our products in the computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer markets will continue to account for the majority of our revenue.
In addition, as technology evolves, the ability to integrate the functionalities of various components, including our discrete semiconductor products, onto a single chip and/or onto other components of systems containing our products increases.
We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets required to maintain or expand our business.
Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis.
A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our product markets could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position within these markets.
As we develop new product lines, we must adapt to market conditions that are unfamiliar to us, such as competitors and distribution channels that are different from those we have known in the past.
Some of our new product lines require us to re-equip our labs to test parameters we have not tested in the past.
If we are unable to adapt rapidly to these new and additional conditions, we may not be able to successfully penetrate new markets.
Our customers generally have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources.
Some customers have traditionally used these resources to develop their own products internally.
The future prospects for our products in these markets are dependent in part upon our customers' acceptance of our products as an alternative to their internally developed products.
Future sales prospects also are dependent upon acceptance of third-party sourcing for products as an alternative to in-house development.
Customers may in the future continue to use internally developed components.
34  



 Table of Contents   



We derive most of our revenue from direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia and have significant operations in Asia, which may expose us to political, cultural, regulatory, economic, foreign exchange, and operational risks.
We derive most of our revenue from customers located in Asia through direct sales or indirect sales through distribution arrangements and value-added reseller agreements with parties located in Asia.
As a result, we are subject to increased risks due to this geographic concentration of business and operations.
For the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, 89% and 88% of our revenue, respectively, was from customers in Asia.
There are risks inherent in doing business in Asia, and internationally in general, including: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



If we fail to expand our customer base and significantly reduce the geographic concentration of our customers, we will continue to be subject to the foregoing risks, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and financial condition.
Historically, we have generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers, including distributors.
For example, sales to our largest distributor accounted for 22% of our total revenue for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2019.
We continue to rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue.
35  



 Table of Contents   



We are subject to anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA.
We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits, along with various other anti-corruption laws.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws to which we are subject, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our employees and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire.
We have significant operations in Asia, which place us in frequent contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” under the FCPA, resulting in an elevated risk of potential FCPA violations.
We receive a significant portion of our revenue from distribution arrangements, value-added resellers and direct customers, and the loss of any one of these distributors, value-added resellers or direct customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position.
We market our products through distribution arrangements and value-added resellers and through our direct sales and applications support organization to customers that include OEMs, ODMs and electronic manufacturing service providers ("EMSs").
Receivables from our customers are generally not secured by any type of collateral and are subject to the risk of being uncollectible.
Sales to our largest distributor accounted for 22% of our total revenue for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2019.
Moreover, we believe a high percentage of our products are eventually sold to a number of OEMs.
Although we communicate with OEMs in an attempt to achieve “design wins,” which are decisions by OEMs and/or ODMs to incorporate our products, we do not have purchase commitments from these end users.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that the OEMs and/or ODMs will continue to incorporate our ICs into their products.
OEM technical specifications and requirements can change rapidly, and we may not have products that fit new specifications from an end customer for whom we have had previous design wins.
We cannot be certain that we will continue to achieve design wins from large OEMs, that our direct customers will continue to be successful in selling to the OEMs, or that the OEMs will be successful in selling products which incorporate our ICs.
Due to the nature of our business as a component supplier, we may have difficulty both in accurately predicting our future revenue and appropriately managing our expenses.
Because we provide components for end products and systems, demand for our products is influenced by our customers’ end product demand.
As a result, we may have difficulty in accurately forecasting our revenue and expenses.
In addition, demand for our products is influenced by our customers’ ability to manage their inventory.
Our sales to distributors are subject to higher volatility because they service demand from multiple levels of the supply chain which, in itself, is inherently difficult to forecast.
36  



 Table of Contents   



Our ability to increase product sales and revenue may be constrained by the manufacturing capacity of our suppliers.
Although we provide our suppliers with rolling forecasts of our production requirements, their ability to provide wafers to us is limited by the available capacity, particularly capacity in the geometries we require, at the facilities in which they manufacture wafers for us.
As a result, this lack of capacity has at times constrained our product sales and revenue growth.
In addition, an increased need for capacity to meet internal demands or demands of other customers could cause our suppliers to reduce capacity available to us.
Our suppliers may also require us to pay amounts in excess of contracted or anticipated amounts for wafer deliveries or require us to make other concessions in order to acquire the wafer supply necessary to meet our customer requirements.
Delays in increasing third-party manufacturing capacity may also limit our ability to meet customer demand.
We currently depend on third-party suppliers to provide us with wafers for our products.
We have a supply arrangement with certain suppliers for the production of wafers.
While certain aspects of our relationship with these suppliers are contractual, many important aspects of this relationship depend on our suppliers’ continued cooperation and our management of the supplier relationships.
In addition, the fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and precise process.
Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous ICs on each wafer to be non-functional.
Further, as is common in the semiconductor industry, our customers may reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice.
We might not be able to deliver our products on a timely basis if our relationships with our assembly and test subcontractors are disrupted or terminated.
We do not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality because all of our products are assembled by third-party subcontractors and a portion of our testing is currently performed by third-party subcontractors.
Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we were forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products.
In addition, events such as global economic crises may materially impact our assembly suppliers’ ability to operate.
There may be unanticipated costs associated with adding to or supplementing our third-party suppliers’ manufacturing capacity.
We anticipate that future growth of our business will require increased manufacturing capacity on the part of third-party supply foundries, assembly shops, and testing facilities for our products.
In order to facilitate such growth, we may need to enter into strategic transactions, investments and other activities.
37  



 Table of Contents   



We purchase inventory in advance based on expected demand for our products, and if demand is not as expected, we may have insufficient or excess inventory, which could adversely impact our financial position.
As a fabless semiconductor company, we purchase our inventory from third-party manufacturers in advance of selling our products.
We place orders with our manufacturers based on existing and expected orders from our customers for particular products.
In December 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was enacted and included a broad range of tax reforms, including changes to the corporate tax rate, business deductions and international tax provisions.
Some of the significant new requirements included, but are not limited to, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation transition tax on previously deferred foreign earnings, a remeasurement of our deferred taxes due to the change in the corporate tax rate, taxation of certain global intangible low-taxed income under the international tax provisions, and limitations on the deductibility of performance-based compensation for officers.
In addition, the deemed repatriation transition tax liability, which is payable in installments over eight years, adversely impacts our cash flows.
It requires the collection and analysis of extensive information, the use of estimates and the exercise of significant judgment in determining our tax provision.
The complexity of calculating our tax provision may result in errors that could result in restatements of our financial statements.
We assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
Implementation of an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) or other information technology systems could result in significant disruptions to our operations.
From time to time, we may implement new ERP software solutions or upgrade existing systems.
Implementation of these solutions and systems is highly dependent on coordination of system providers and internal business teams.
We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new or upgraded systems and processes, including loss or corruption of financial, business or customer data.
In addition, transitioning to these new systems requires significant capital investments and personnel resources.
38  



 Table of Contents   



System security risks, data protection or privacy breaches, cyber attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations and/or harm our reputation, and any such disruption or harm could cause a reduction in our expected revenue, increase our expenses, negatively impact our results of operation or otherwise adversely affect our stock price.
Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential and proprietary information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns.
The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, financial reporting or other critical functions.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data on our internal systems, network and servers, such as proprietary business and financial information, and confidential data pertaining to our customers, suppliers and business partners.
The secure maintenance of sensitive information on our networks and the protection features of our solutions are both critical to our operations and business strategy.
We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data.
However, these security measures cannot provide absolute security.
Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and solutions, any destructive or intrusive breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.
Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time.
We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and our remediation efforts may be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive.
Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes.
From time to time we are a party to various legal proceedings.
We and/or our customers could also be prevented from selling some or all of our products.
Moreover, our customers and end users could decide not to use our products, and our products and our customers’ accounts payable to us could be seized.
Finally, interim developments in these proceedings could increase the volatility in our stock price as the market assesses the impact of such developments on the likelihood that we will or will not ultimately prevail in these proceedings.
Historically, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with various legal proceedings that vary with the level of activity in the proceeding.
We may also be subject to unanticipated legal proceedings, which would result in us incurring unexpected legal expenses.
Future legal proceedings may divert our financial and management resources.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights.
Such litigation is very costly.
39  



 Table of Contents   



Failure to protect our proprietary technologies or maintain the right to certain technologies may negatively affect our ability to compete.
We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies.
Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our products.
We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, and we also rely on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees’ commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our technology, know-how and processes.
Despite the precautions we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future technologies or products, or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technologies, including through patents.
We face risks in connection with our internal control over financial reporting.
Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports.
In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date, which may impact the reliability of our financial reporting and financial statements.
Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance, and reliability that our products must meet.
ICs as complex as ours often encounter development delays and may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments, which might require product replacement or recall.
Further, our third-party manufacturing processes or changes thereof, or raw material used in the manufacturing processes may cause our products to fail.
We have from time to time in the past experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems.
Our standard warranty period is generally one to two years, which exposes us to significant risks of claims for defects and failures.
Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims.
Our products incorporate commodities such as gold, copper and silicon.
Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other foreign currencies, including the Renminbi, may adversely affect results of operations.
Our manufacturing and packaging suppliers are and will continue to be primarily located in China for the foreseeable future.
In addition, our sales are primarily denominated in the U.S. Dollar.
40  



 Table of Contents   



We incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses related to the timing of payments for transactions between the U.S. and our foreign subsidiaries, which are reported in interest and other income in the statements of operations.
Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the foreign currencies could increase the amount of foreign currency exchange losses we record, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.
Our business is subject to various significant laws and other legal requirements imposed by the U.S. and other countries we conduct business with, including export control laws such as the Export Administration Act, the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") and other laws, regulations and requirements governing international trade and technology transfer.
These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have generally become more stringent over time.
We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations.
We must conform the manufacture and distribution of our products to various laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in many countries as these requirements change.
If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, we could be required to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products commercially until the products are brought into compliance.
Environmental laws and regulations could cause a disruption in our business and operations.
We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products.
Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries and countries in Asia.
We and our manufacturing partners are or will be subject to extensive Chinese government regulation, and the benefit of various incentives from Chinese governments that we and our manufacturing partners receive may be reduced or eliminated, which could increase our costs or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China.
The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China.
Additionally, China’s government has implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China.
It exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies.
Personal privacy, cyber security, and data protection are becoming increasingly significant issues in China.
To address these issues, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress promulgated the Cyber Security Law of the People’s Republic of China (the “Cyber Security Law”), which took effect on June 1, 2017.
The Cyber Security Law sets forth various requirements relating to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data, among other things.
Various Chinese agencies are expected to issue additional regulations in the future to define these requirements more precisely.
These requirements may increase our costs of compliance.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these regulatory requirements.
Any failure to comply with the Cyber Security Law and the relevant regulations and policies could result in further cost and liability to us and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Additionally, increased costs to comply with, and other burdens imposed by, the Cyber Security Law and relevant regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our suppliers, vendors and other service providers, as well as our customers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Any additional new regulations or the amendment or modification of previously implemented regulations could require us and our manufacturing partners to change our business plans, increase our costs, or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
41  



 Table of Contents   



The Chinese government and provincial and local governments also have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to encourage the development of the semiconductor industry in China.
Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to our manufacturing partners and to us with respect to our facilities in China.
Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time.
There are inherent risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing and testing facilities in China, which could increase product costs or cause a delay in product shipments.
The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased over time and could do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profits.
Average selling prices of semiconductor products in the markets we serve have historically decreased over time.
The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development plans and expenditures may be made up to two years or more in advance of any sales.
It generally takes us up to 12 months or more to design and manufacture a new product prototype.
Only after we have a prototype do we introduce the product to the market and begin selling efforts in an attempt to achieve design wins.
This sales process requires us to expend significant sales and marketing resources without any assurance of success.
Volume production of products that use our ICs, if any, may not be achieved for an additional period of time after an initial sale.
As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenue.
In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their orders.
Our sales are made by purchase orders.
Because industry practice allows customers to reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice, backlog is not always a good indicator of our future sales.
42  



 Table of Contents   



Our success depends on our investment of significant resources in research and development.
Our success depends on us investing significant amounts of resources into research and development.
We expect to have to continue to invest heavily in research and development in the future in order to continue to innovate and introduce new products in a timely manner and increase our revenue and profitability.
In addition, if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase.
If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline.
In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development.
The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could affect our operations or impair our ability to grow our business.
Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel.
We are particularly dependent on the continued services of our key executives, including Michael Hsing, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who founded our company and developed our proprietary process technology.
In addition, personnel with highly skilled analog and mixed-signal design engineering expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain existing key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified personnel with critical capabilities in the future.
If we are unable to retain the services of existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees quickly enough to meet the demands of our business, including design cycles, our business could be harmed.
Furthermore, if we lose key personnel, the search for a qualified replacement and the transition could interrupt our operations as the search could take us longer than expected and divert management resources, and the newly hired employee could take longer than expected to integrate into the team.
If we fail to retain key employees in our sales, applications, finance and legal staff or to make continued improvements to our internal systems, particularly in the accounting and finance area, our business may suffer.
We intend to continue to expand our operations, which may strain our resources and increase our operating expenses.
We expect that any such expansion will strain our systems and operational and financial controls.
In addition, we are likely to incur significantly higher operating costs.
To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and controls, as well as hire experienced administrative and financial personnel.
If we fail to do so, our growth will be limited.
We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any company or business that we acquire.
As a part of our business strategy, from time to time we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, enhance our design capability or offer other competitive opportunities.
As a result of completing acquisitions, we could use a significant portion of our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, issue equity securities that would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership, or incur substantial debt or contingent liabilities.
43  



 Table of Contents   



In addition, we may be unable to identify or complete prospective acquisitions for various reasons, including competition from other companies in the semiconductor industry, the valuation expectations of acquisition candidates and applicable antitrust laws or related regulations.
Some of the risks that may adversely affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from the acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



In addition, third parties may be interested in acquiring us.
We will consider and discuss such transactions as we deem appropriate.
Such potential transactions may diver the attention of management, and cause us to incur various costs and expenses in investigating and evaluating such transactions, whether or not they are consummated.
We also issue restricted stock units to employees, which convert into shares of common stock upon vesting.
Any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution to our stockholders.
In addition, the issuance of a significant amount of our common stock may result in additional regulatory requirements, such as stockholder approval.
We compete against many companies with substantially greater financial and other resources, and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively.
The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue.
Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit applications and design talent, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products.
We compete with domestic and non-domestic semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products.
We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with many manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength.
The number of our competitors has grown due to the expansion of the market segments in which we participate.
We do not have any control over these analysts.
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
In June 2014, the Board of Directors approved a dividend program pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock.
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.
Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.
Major earthquakes or other natural disasters and resulting systems outages may cause us significant losses.
Our office in California, the production facilities of our third-party wafer suppliers, our IC testing and manufacturing facilities, a portion of our assembly and research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in or near seismically active regions and are subject to periodic earthquakes.
We do not maintain earthquake insurance and could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake.
Much of our revenue, as well as our manufacturers and assemblers, are concentrated in Asia, particularly in China.
Such concentration increases the risk that other natural disasters, labor strikes, terrorism, war, political unrest, epidemics, and/or health advisories could disrupt our operations.
In addition, we rely heavily on our internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties to manage our operations efficiently and effectively.
Any of these are subject to failure due to a natural disaster or other disruption.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* This exhibit shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any filings.
45  



 Table of Contents   



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC 



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



46
