ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(in thousands, except par value) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
3 



Table of Contents  



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 



(in thousands, except per-share amounts) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
4 



Table of Contents  



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



(in thousands) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
5 



Table of Contents  



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



(in thousands) 



(unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
6 



Table of Contents  



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC. 



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(Unaudited) 



1.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION 



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by Monolithic Power Systems, Inc. (the “Company” or “MPS”) in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
Certain information and disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted in accordance with these accounting principles, rules and regulations.
The information in this report should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on  March 1, 2018.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods presented.
The financial statements contained in this Form 10-Q are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2018 or for any other future periods.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 



Except for the changes related to revenue recognition discussed in “Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements” and in Note 2 below, there have been no other changes to the Company’s significant accounting policies during the three months ended  March 31, 2018 as compared to the significant accounting policies described in the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 2017.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements 



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers.
The standard’s core principle is that an entity will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company adopted the standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of December 31, 2017.
Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior-period amounts have not been retrospectively adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with Topic 605, Revenue Recognition.
The Company recorded a net increase to the opening balance of retained earnings of $0.4 million, net of tax, as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative effect of initially applying Topic 606, primarily related to the change in revenue recognition for three U.S.-based distributors.
Sales to these distributors are transacted under the terms of agreements providing price adjustment rights.
Prior to the adoption of Topic 606, revenue and costs related to these sales were deferred until the Company received notification from the distributors that the products had been sold to the end customers and the amount of price adjustments was fixed and finalized.
Upon adoption of Topic 606, the transaction price takes into consideration the effect of variable consideration such as price adjustments, which are estimated and recorded at the time the promised goods are transferred to the distributors.
Accordingly, effective  January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue at the time of shipment to the distributors, adjusted for an estimate of the price adjustments based on management’s review of historical data and other information available at the time.
See Note 2 for further discussion.
In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows - Restricted Cash (Topic 230), which requires entities to show the changes in the total of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted the standard on  January 1, 2018 and applied the guidance retrospectively to all periods presented.
See Note 9 for further discussion.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted as of March 31, 2018 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires entities to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the balance sheets for substantially all leases with a lease term greater than 12 months, including leases currently accounted for as operating leases.
In addition, the standard applies to leases embedded in service arrangements.
The standard requires modified retrospective adoption and will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and disclosures.
7 



Table of Contents  



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326), which introduces a model based on expected losses to estimate credit losses for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
In addition, for available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, the losses will be recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities.
The standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
Entities will apply the standard by recording a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and disclosures.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), which simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment.
The guidance removes step two of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation.
A goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary.
The standard will be applied prospectively, and is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after  December 15, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is evaluating the impact of the adoption on its annual goodwill impairment test.
2.
REVENUE RECOGNITION 



Revenue from Product Sales 



The following table presents the Company’s revenue disaggregated by end market (in thousands, except for percentages): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



_______________ [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company generates revenue primarily from product sales, which include assembled and tested integrated circuits and dies in wafer form to the consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications markets.
The Company also generates royalty revenue from licensing arrangements and revenue from wafer testing services performed for third parties, which have not been significant in all periods presented.
The Company sells its products primarily through third-party distributors, value-added resellers, original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers and electronic manufacturing service providers.
For both the three months ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017, approximately 88% of the Company’s sales were made through distribution arrangements, which contain enforceable rights and obligations specific to those distributors and not the end customers.
Purchase orders, which are governed by sales agreements or the Company's standard terms of sale, state the final terms for unit price, quantity, shipping and payment agreed by both parties.
The Company considers purchase orders to be the contracts with customers.
The unit price as stated on the purchase orders is considered the observable, stand-alone selling price for the arrangements.
Under Topic 606, the Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of the promised goods or services to its customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company excludes taxes assessed by government authorities, such as sales taxes, from revenue.
8 



Table of Contents  



Product sales consist of a single performance obligation that the Company satisfies at a point in time.
The Company recognizes product revenue from distributors and direct end customers when the following events have occurred: (a) the Company has transferred physical possession of the products, (b) the Company has a present right to payment, (c) the customer has legal title to the products, and (d) the customer bears significant risks and rewards of ownership of the products.
In accordance with the shipping terms specified in the contracts, these criteria are generally met when the products are shipped from the Company’s facilities (such as the “Ex Works” shipping term) or delivered to the customers’ locations (such as the “Delivered Duty Paid” shipping term).
Under certain consignment agreements, revenue is not recognized when the products are held at customers’ designated locations because the Company retains ownership and the customers do not have an unconditional obligation to pay.
The Company recognizes revenue when the customers pull the products from the locations or after a 60-day period lapses, at which time control transfers to the customers and the Company invoices them for payment.
Variable Consideration 



The Company records variable consideration as a reduction to revenue in the same period the revenue is recognized.
Three U.S.-based distributors have price adjustment rights when they sell the Company’s products to their end customers at a price that is lower than the distribution price invoiced by the Company.
When the Company receives claims from the distributors that products have been sold to the end customers at the lower price, the Company issues the distributors credit memos for the price adjustments.
Other U.S. distributors and non-U.S. distributors, which make up the majority of the Company’s total sales to distributors, do not have price adjustment rights.
In addition, certain distributors have limited stock rotation rights that permit the return of a small percentage of the previous six months’ purchases.
The Company estimates the stock rotation returns based on analyses of historical returns, and the current level of inventory in the distribution channel.
The Company recognizes an asset for product returns which represents the right to recover products from the customers related to stock rotations, with a corresponding reduction to cost of goods sold.
Contract Balances 



The Company records a receivable when it has an unconditional right to receive consideration after the performance obligations are satisfied.
As of  March 31, 2018 and  December 31, 2017, accounts receivable totaled $48.2 million and $38.0 million, respectively.
To manage credit risk, management performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition.
The Company did not recognize any impairment losses related to its receivables in any of the periods presented.
For certain customers located in Asia, the Company requires cash payments two weeks before the products are scheduled to be shipped to the customers.
The Company records these payments received in advance of performance as customer prepayments within current liabilities.
As of  March 31, 2018 and  December 31, 2017, customer prepayments totaled $2.9 million and $4.7 million, respectively.
The decrease in the customer prepayment balance for the three months ended  March 31, 2018 resulted from a decrease in unfulfilled customer orders for which the Company has received payments.
For the three months ended  March 31, 2018, the Company recognized $4.6 million of revenue that was included in the customer prepayment balance as of  December 31, 2017.
9 



Table of Contents  



Contract Costs 



The Company pays sales commissions based on the achievement of pre-determined product sales targets.
As the Company recognizes product sales at a point in time, sales commissions are expensed as incurred.
Warranty 



The Company generally provides one to two-year warranties against defects in materials and workmanship and will either repair the products, provide replacements at no charge to customers or issue a refund.
As they are considered assurance-type warranties, the Company does not account for them as separate performance obligations.
Warranty reserve requirements are based on a specific assessment of the products sold with warranties when a customer asserts a claim for warranty or a product defect.
Practical Expedients 



The Company’s standard payment terms generally require customers to pay 30 to 60 days after the Company satisfies the performance obligations.
For those customers who are required to pay in advance, the Company satisfies the performance obligations typically within one quarter.
The Company has elected not to determine whether contacts with customers contain significant financing components.
As of  March 31, 2018, the Company’s unsatisfied performance obligations primarily included products held in consignment arrangements and customer purchase orders for products that the Company has not yet shipped.
Because the Company expects to fulfill these performance obligations within one year, the Company has elected not to disclose the amount of these remaining performance obligations or the timing of recognition.
Changes to Financial Statement Line Items 



The following tables compare the impact on the financial statement line items between the application of Topic 606 and Topic 605 as of  March 31, 2018 and for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The significant changes between the two standards are primarily attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



10 



Table of Contents  



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



3.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 



2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2014 Plan”) 



The Board of Directors adopted the 2014 Plan in April 2013, and the stockholders approved it in June 2013.
In October 2014, the Board of Directors approved certain amendments to the 2014 Plan.
The 2014 Plan, as amended, became effective on November 13, 2014 and provides for the issuance of up to 5.5 million shares.
The 2014 Plan will expire on November 13, 2024.
As of March 31, 2018, 2.7 million shares remained available for future issuance under the 2014 Plan.
11 



Table of Contents  



Stock-Based Compensation Expense 



The Company recognized stock-based compensation expenses as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Restricted Stock Units 



The Company’s restricted stock units (“RSUs”) include time-based RSUs, RSUs with only performance conditions (“PSUs”), RSUs with both market and performance conditions (“MPSUs”), and RSUs with only market conditions (“MSUs”).
Vesting of all awards requires continued service for the Company.
In addition, vesting of awards with performance conditions or market conditions is subject to the achievement of pre-determined performance goals.
A summary of RSU activity is presented in the table below (in thousands, except per-share amounts):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The intrinsic value related to RSUs released was $49.5 million and $37.4 million for the three months ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
As of March 31, 2018, the total intrinsic value of all outstanding RSUs was $451.7 million, based on the closing stock price of $115.77.
As of March 31, 2018, unamortized compensation expense related to all outstanding RSUs was $117.2 million with a weighted-average remaining recognition period of approximately 3.5 years.
Cash proceeds from the release of PSUs with a purchase price feature totaled $7.8 million for the three months ended  March 31, 2018.
There were no proceeds for the three months ended  March 31, 2017.
Time-Based RSUs: 



For the three months ended  March 31, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") granted 53,000 RSUs, respectively, with time-based vesting conditions to employees and non-employee directors.
The RSUs vest over four years for employees and one year for directors, subject to continued service with the Company.
2018 PSUs: 



In February 2018, the Compensation Committee granted 188,000 PSUs to the executive officers, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded based on the Company’s average two-year (2018 and 2019) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2018 Executive PSUs”).
The maximum number of shares that an executive officer can earn is 300% of the target number of the 2018 Executive PSUs.
50% of the 2018 Executive PSUs will vest in the first quarter of 2020 if the pre-determined performance goals are met during the performance period and approved by the Compensation Committee.
The remaining 2018 Executive PSUs will vest over the following two years on a quarterly basis.
Vesting is subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company.
Assuming the achievement of the highest level of performance goals, the total stock-based compensation cost for the 2018 Executive PSUs is $46.1 million.
12 



Table of Contents  



In February 2018, the Compensation Committee granted 44,000 PSUs to certain non-executive employees, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded based on the Company’s 2019 revenue goals for certain regions or product line divisions, or based on the Company’s average two-year (2018 and 2019) revenue growth rate compared against the analog industry’s average two-year revenue growth rate as published by the Semiconductor Industry Association (“2018 Non-Executive PSUs”).
The maximum number of shares that an employee can earn is either 200% or 300% of the target number of the 2018 Non-Executive PSUs, depending on the job classification of the employee.
50% of the 2018 Non-Executive PSUs will vest in the first quarter of 2020 if the pre-determined performance goals are met during the performance period and approved by the Compensation Committee.
The remaining 2018 Non-Executive PSUs will vest over the following two years on an annual or quarterly basis.
Vesting is subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company.
Assuming the achievement of the highest level of performance goals, the total stock-based compensation cost for the 2018 Non-Executive PSUs, excluding cancelled shares, is $8.9 million.
The 2018 Executive PSUs and the 2018 Non-Executive PSUs contain a purchase price feature, which requires the employees to pay the Company $30 per share upon vesting of the shares.
Shares that do not vest will not be subject to the purchase price payment.
The Company determined the grant date fair value of the 2018 Executive PSUs and the 2018 Non-Executive PSUs using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: stock price of $110.00, expected term of 2.6 years, expected volatility of 27.5% and risk-free interest rate of 2.3%.
2015 MPSUs: 



On December 31, 2015, the Compensation Committee granted 86,000 MPSUs to the executive officers and 41,000 MPSUs to certain non-executive employees, which represent a target number of shares to be awarded upon achievement of both market conditions and performance conditions (“2015 MPSUs”).
The maximum number of shares that an employee can earn is 500% of the target number of the 2015 MPSUs.
The 2015 MPSUs consist of four separate tranches with various performance periods ending on December 31, 2019.
The first tranche contains market conditions only, which require the achievement of five stock price targets ranging from $71.36 to $95.57 with a performance period from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2019.
As of September 30, 2017, all five price targets for the first tranche have been achieved and approved by the Compensation Committee.
The second, third and fourth tranches contain both market conditions and performance conditions.
Each tranche requires the achievement of five stock price targets measured against a base price equal to the greater of: (1) the average closing stock price during the 20 consecutive trading days immediately before the start of the performance period for that tranche, or (2) the closing stock price immediately before the start of the performance period for that tranche.
The stock price targets for the second tranche range from $89.56 to $106.81 with a performance period from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019.
As of December 31, 2017, all five price targets for the second tranche have been achieved and approved by the Compensation Committee.
The stock price targets for the third tranche range from $120.80 to $135.48 with a performance period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019.
As of  March 31, 2018, none of the stock price targets for the third tranche have been achieved and approved by the Compensation Committee.
The stock price targets for the fourth tranche will be determined on December 31, 2018 with a performance period from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019.
In addition, each of the second, third and fourth tranches requires the achievement of one of following six operating metrics: 



      1.
Successful implementation of full digital solutions for certain power products.
2.
Successful implementation, and adoption by a key customer, of an integrated, software-based field-oriented control with sensors to motor drivers.
3.
Successful implementation of certain advanced power analog processes.
4.
Successful design wins and achievement of a specific level of revenue with a global networking customer.
5.
Achievement of a specific level of revenue with a global electronics manufacturer.
6.
Achievement of a specific level of market share with certain core power products.
As of March 31, 2018, none of the operating metrics have been achieved.
Subject to the employees’ continued employment with the Company, the 2015 MPSUs will fully vest on January 1, 2020 if the pre-determined individual market and performance goals in each tranche are met during the performance periods and approved by the Compensation Committee.
In addition, the 2015 MPSUs contain sales restrictions on the vested shares by employees for up to two years.
The Company determined the grant date fair value of the 2015 MPSUs using a Monte Carlo simulation model with the following weighted-average assumptions: stock price of $61.35, expected volatility of 33.2%, risk-free interest rate of 1.3%, and an illiquidity discount of 7.8% to account for the post-vesting sales restrictions.
Assuming the achievement of all of the required market and performance goals, the total stock-based compensation cost for the 2015 MPSUs, excluding cancelled shares, is $24.6 million ($8.3 million for the first tranche, $4.5 million for the second tranche, $5.2 million for the third tranche, and $6.6 million for the fourth tranche).
13 



Table of Contents  



For the first tranche, stock-based compensation expense is being recognized over the requisite service period.
For the second, third and fourth tranches, stock-based compensation expense for each tranche is recognized depending upon the number of the operating metrics management deems probable of being achieved during the performance periods in each reporting period.
As of March 31, 2018, based on management’s quarterly assessment, three of the six operating metrics were considered probable of being achieved during the performance periods.
Accordingly, stock-based compensation expense is being recognized for the second, third and fourth tranches over the requisite service period.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) 



For the three months ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017, 18,000 and 22,000 shares, respectively, were issued under the ESPP.
As of  March 31, 2018, 4.6 million shares were available for future issuance.
The intrinsic value of the shares issued was $0.5 million for both the three months ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017.
As of  March 31, 2018, the unamortized expense was $0.3 million, which will be recognized through the third quarter of 2018.
The Black-Scholes model was used to value the employee stock purchase rights with the following weighted-average assumptions:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Cash proceeds from the shares issued under the ESPP were $1.6 million and $1.4 million for the three months ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
4.
BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS 



Inventories  



Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Other Current Assets 



Other current assets consist of the following (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



14 



Table of Contents  



Under Topic 606, assets for product returns represent the carrying value of inventory the Company expects to recover from customers related to stock rotation returns.
Prior to the adoption of Topic 606, such amounts were netted against the stock rotation reserve.
Other Long-Term Assets 



Other long-term assets consist of the following (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Accrued Liabilities 



Accrued liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



A roll-forward of the warranty reserve is as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Other Long-Term Liabilities 



Other long-term liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



15 



Table of Contents  



5.
GOODWILL AND ACQUISITION-RELATED INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET 



There have been no changes in the balance of goodwill during the three months ended  March 31, 2018.
Acquisition-related intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Amortization expense is recorded in cost of revenue in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
For the three months ended  March 31, 2018 and 2017, amortization expense totaled $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
As of  March 31, 2018, the estimated future amortization expense was as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



6.
NET INCOME PER SHARE 



Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period.
Diluted net income per share reflects the potential dilution that would occur if outstanding securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common shares, and calculated using the treasury stock method.
Contingently issuable shares, including equity awards with performance conditions or market conditions, are considered outstanding common shares and included in the basic net income per share as of the date that all necessary conditions to earn the awards have been satisfied.
Prior to the end of the contingency period, the number of contingently issuable shares included in the diluted net income per share is based on the number of shares, if any, that would be issuable under the terms of the arrangement at the end of the reporting period.
The Company’s outstanding RSUs contain forfeitable rights to receive cash dividend equivalents, which are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest.
Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill their service requirement and the awards do not vest.
Accordingly, these awards are not treated as participating securities in the net income per share calculation.
16 



Table of Contents  



The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share (in thousands, except per-share amounts): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



7.
SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION 



The Company operates in one reportable segment that includes the design, development, marketing and sale of high-performance analog solutions for the consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications markets.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker is its Chief Executive Officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of allocating resources and evaluating financial performance.
The Company derives a majority of its revenue from sales to customers located outside North America, with geographic revenue based on the customers’ ship-to locations.
The Company sells its products primarily through third-party distributors and value-added resellers, and directly to original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers and electronic manufacturing service providers.
The following table summarizes those customers with sales equal to or greater than 10% of the Company's total revenue or with accounts receivable balances greater than 10% of the Company’s total accounts receivable: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



__________________ 



* Represents less than 10%.
The Company’s agreements with these third-party distributors and value-added reseller were made in the ordinary course of business and may be terminated with or without cause by these customers with advance notice.
Although the Company may experience a short-term disruption in the distribution of its products and a short-term decline in revenue if its agreement with any of these customers was terminated, the Company believes that such termination would not have a material adverse effect on its financial statements because it would be able to engage alternative distributors, resellers and other distribution channels to deliver its products to end customers within a short period following the termination of the agreement with the customer.
17 



Table of Contents  



The following is a summary of revenue by geographic regions (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following is a summary of revenue by product family (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following is a summary of long-lived assets by geographic regions (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



8.
These proceedings often involve complex questions of fact and law and may require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend.
The Company defends itself vigorously against any such claims.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which the Company was a party.
18 



Table of Contents  



9.
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, INVESTMENTS AND RESTRICTED CASH 



The following is a summary of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments (in thousands):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The contractual maturities of the Company’s short-term and long-term available-for-sale investments are as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The following tables summarize the unrealized gain and loss positions related to the Company’s available-for sale investments (in thousands):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



19 



Table of Contents  



Restricted Cash 



The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash reported within the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets to the amounts shown in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



Restricted cash includes a security deposit that is set aside in a bank account and cannot be withdrawn by the Company under the terms of a lease agreement.
The restriction will end and any unused amount will be returned to the Company upon the expiration of the lease.
10.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  



The following table details the fair value measurement of the financial assets (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



_________________ 



  ●   Level 1—includes instruments with quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  ●   Level 3—includes instruments for which the valuations are based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.
The Company’s level 3 assets consist of government-backed student loan auction-rate securities, which became illiquid in 2008.
The following table provides a rollforward of the fair value of the auction-rate securities (in thousands):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



20 



Table of Contents  



The Company determined the fair value of the auction-rate securities using a discounted cash flow model with the following assumptions: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



11.
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 



The following table summarizes the deferred compensation plan balances in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



12.
INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME, NET 



The components of interest and other income, net are as follows (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



13.
These amounts remained as estimates as of  March 31, 2018 and, as permitted by Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, they will be refined through December 2018 based on the Company’s ongoing analysis of data and tax positions along with new guidance from regulators and interpretation of the law.
The income tax provision for the three months ended  March 31, 2018 was $0.6 million, or 2.8% of pre-tax income.
For the three months ended  March 31, 2018, the Company’s effective tax rate included the estimated impact of $12.4 million related to the GILTI provisions that was included as additional subpart F income, which was accounted for as a period cost.
In addition, for the three months ended  March 31, 2018, the Company paid the 2018 installment of $1.9 million related to the deemed repatriation transition tax liability.
As of  March 31, 2018, the remaining $22.0 million transition tax liability was recorded in long-term income tax liabilities on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
21 



Table of Contents  



The income tax provision for the three months ended  March 31, 2017 was $0.5 million, or 3.2% of pre-tax income.
In addition, the effective tax rate was impacted by changes in the valuation allowance primarily related to stock-based compensation.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $18.8 million of unrecognized tax benefits, $9.9 million of which would affect its effective tax rate if recognized after considering the valuation allowance.
At December 31, 2017, the Company had $16.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits, $9.1 million of which would affect its effective tax rate if recognized after considering the valuation allowance.
Uncertain tax positions relate to the allocation of income and deductions among the Company’s global entities and to the determination of the research and development tax credit.
It is reasonably possible that over the next twelve-month period, the Company may experience increases or decreases in its unrecognized tax benefits.
However, it is not possible to determine either the magnitude or the range of increases or decreases at this time.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties, if any, related to uncertain tax positions in its income tax provision.
As of March 31, 2018 and  December 31, 2017, the Company has $0.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively, of accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions, which were recorded in long-term income tax liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
On July 27, 2015, in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion related to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement.
A final decision was issued in  December 2015, and the IRS appealed the decision in February 2016.
At this time, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement from its regulations to include stock-based compensation in the cost pool to be shared under a cost-sharing arrangement.
Due to the uncertainty surrounding the status of the current regulations, questions related to the scope of potential benefits, and the risk of the Tax Court’s decision being overturned upon appeal, the Company has not recorded any adjustments as of March 31, 2018.
The Company will continue to monitor developments related to this opinion and the potential impact on its financial statements.
14.
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  



The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (in thousands): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



The amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income were recorded in interest and other income, net, in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
15.
DIVIDENDS AND DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS 



Cash Dividend Program 



In June 2014, the Board of Directors approved a dividend program pursuant to which the Company intends to pay quarterly cash dividends on its common stock.
Based on the Company’s historical practice, stockholders of record as of the last business day of the quarter are entitled to receive the quarterly cash dividends when and if declared by the Board of Directors, which are payable to the stockholders in the following month.
The Board of Directors declared the following cash dividends (in thousands, except per-share amounts):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



22 



Table of Contents  



As of  March 31, 2018 and  December 31, 2017, accrued dividends totaled $12.6 million and $8.3 million, respectively.
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, statutory requirements of Delaware law, and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of the stockholders.
The Company anticipates that cash used for future dividend payments will come from its current domestic cash and cash generated from ongoing U.S. operations.
In addition, the Company currently plans to repatriate cash from its Bermuda subsidiary to fund future dividends and continue to indefinitely reinvest its earnings from other foreign subsidiaries.
Cash Dividend Equivalent Rights 



Under the Company’s stock plans, outstanding RSUs contain rights to receive cash dividend equivalents, which entitle employees who hold RSUs to the same dividend value per share as holders of common stock.
The dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid to the employees when the underlying RSUs vest.
Dividend equivalents accumulated on the underlying RSUs are forfeited if the employees do not fulfill their service requirement and the awards do not vest.
As of  March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, accrued dividend equivalents totaled $6.7 million and $5.8 million, respectively.
23 



Table of Contents  



ITEM 1.
These proceedings often involve complex questions of fact and law and may require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend.
We defend ourselves vigorously against any such claims.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no material pending legal proceedings to which we were a party.
ITEM 1A.
31 



Table of Contents  



The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors.
In addition, the stock market often experiences substantial volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies.
In recent years, global credit and financial markets experienced disruptions, and may experience disruptions in the future, including diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability.
The tightening of credit in financial markets may lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing and future orders with us.
In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges.
Volatility in the credit markets could severely diminish liquidity and capital availability.
Demand for our products is a function of the health of the economies in the United States, Europe, China and the rest of the world.
Rising concern of international tariffs, including tariffs applied to goods traded between the United States and China, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Since the beginning of 2018, there has been increasing rhetoric, in some cases coupled with legislative or executive action, from several U.S. and foreign leaders regarding the possibility of instituting tariffs against foreign imports of certain materials.
More specifically, in March and April of 2018, the U.S. and China have applied tariffs to certain of each other’s exports.
The institution of trade tariffs both globally and between the U.S. and China specifically carries the risk of negatively affecting China’s overall economic condition, which could have a negative impact on us as we have significant operations in China.
Furthermore, imposition of tariffs could cause a decrease in the sales of our products to customers located in China or other customers selling to Chinese end users, which would directly impact our business and operating results.
We may not be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis.
We may not achieve profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future.
We may not experience growth rates comparable to past years.
In the past, our revenue increased significantly in certain years due to increased sales of certain of our products.
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
In June 2014, the Board of Directors approved a dividend program pursuant to which we intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock.
The declaration of any future cash dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions, statutory requirements of Delaware law, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.
Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts.
A reduction in or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock.
Our success depends on products that are differentiated in the market, which result in gross margins that have historically been above industry averages.
Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical and, at various times, has experienced significant downturns and wide fluctuations in supply and demand.
These conditions have caused significant variances in product demand and production capacity, as well as rapid erosion of average selling prices.
35 



Table of Contents  



Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results.
In recent years, there has been a trend toward semiconductor industry consolidation.
We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to improve the leverage of growing research and development costs, strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, or become unable to continue operations unless they find an acquirer or consolidate with another company.
In addition, companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us.
We believe that semiconductor industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers.
We believe that the application of our products in the consumer, computing and storage, industrial, automotive and communications markets will continue to account for the majority of our revenue.
In addition, as technology evolves, the ability to integrate the functionalities of various components, including our discrete semiconductor products, onto a single chip and/or onto other components of systems containing our products increases.
We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products or in penetrating new markets required to maintain or expand our business.
Our competitiveness and future success depend on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis.
A fundamental shift in technologies in any of our product markets could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position within these markets.
As we develop new product lines, we must adapt to market conditions that are unfamiliar to us, such as competitors and distribution channels that are different from those we have known in the past.
Some of our new product lines require us to re-equip our labs to test parameters we have not tested in the past.
If we are unable to adapt rapidly to these new and additional conditions, we may not be able to successfully penetrate new markets.
Our customers generally have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources.
Some customers have traditionally used these resources to develop their own products internally.
The future prospects for our products in these markets are dependent in part upon our customers' acceptance of our products as an alternative to their internally developed products.
Future sales prospects also are dependent upon acceptance of third-party sourcing for products as an alternative to in-house development.
Customers may in the future continue to use internally developed components.
36 



Table of Contents  



We derive most of our revenue from direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia and have significant operations in Asia, which may expose us to political, cultural, regulatory, economic, foreign exchange, and operational risks.
We derive most of our revenue from customers located in Asia through direct sales or indirect sales through distribution arrangements and value-added reseller agreements with parties located in Asia.
As a result, we are subject to increased risks due to this geographic concentration of business and operations.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, 88% of our revenue was from customers in Asia.
There are risks inherent in doing business in Asia, and internationally in general, including: 



      •   changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the U.S. and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products;    



      •   trade restrictions, including restrictions imposed by the United States on trading with parties in foreign countries;    



      •   currency exchange rate fluctuations impacting intra-company transactions;    



      •   the fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other foreign currencies, which could affect the competitiveness of our products;    



      •   transportation delays;    



      •   changes in tax regulations in China that may impact our tax status in Chengdu, Hangzhou and other regions where we have significant operations;    



      •   multi-tiered distribution channels that lack visibility to end customer pricing and purchase patterns;    



      •   international political relationships and threats of war;    



      •   terrorism and threats of terrorism;    



      •   epidemics and illnesses;    



      •   work stoppages and infrastructure problems due to adverse weather conditions or natural disasters;    



      •   work stoppages related to employee dissatisfaction;    



      •   economic, social and political instability;    



      •   longer accounts receivable collection cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivables;    



      •   enforcing contracts generally; and,    



      •   less effective protection of intellectual property and contractual arrangements.
Historically, we have generated most of our revenue from a limited number of customers, including distributors.
For example, sales to our largest distributor accounted for 20% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We continue to rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue.
37 



Table of Contents  



We are subject to anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA.
We are subject to the FCPA, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits, along with various other anti-corruption laws.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws to which we are subject, there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA or other laws for actions taken by our employees and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire.
We have significant operations in Asia, which places us in frequent contact with persons who may be considered “foreign officials” under the FCPA, resulting in an elevated risk of potential FCPA violations.
We receive a significant portion of our revenue from distribution arrangements, value-added resellers and direct customers, and the loss of any one of these distributors, value-added resellers or direct customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position.
We market our products through distribution arrangements and value-added resellers and through our direct sales and applications support organization to customers that include OEMs, ODMs and electronic manufacturing service providers (“EMSs”).
Receivables from our customers are generally not secured by any type of collateral and are subject to the risk of being uncollectible.
Sales to our largest distributor accounted for 20% of our total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Moreover, we believe a high percentage of our products are eventually sold to a number of OEMs.
Although we communicate with OEMs in an attempt to achieve “design wins,” which are decisions by OEMs and/or ODMs to incorporate our products, we do not have purchase commitments from these end users.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that the OEMs and/or ODMs will continue to incorporate our ICs into their products.
OEM technical specifications and requirements can change rapidly, and we may not have products that fit new specifications from an end-customer for whom we have had previous design wins.
We cannot be certain that we will continue to achieve design wins from large OEMs, that our direct customers will continue to be successful in selling to the OEMs, or that the OEMs will be successful in selling products which incorporate our ICs.
Due to the nature of our business as a component supplier, we may have difficulty both in accurately predicting our future revenue and appropriately managing our expenses.
Because we provide components for end products and systems, demand for our products is influenced by our customers’ end product demand.
As a result, we may have difficulty in accurately forecasting our revenue and expenses.
In addition, demand for our products is influenced by our customers’ ability to manage their inventory.
Our sales to distributors are subject to higher volatility because they service demand from multiple levels of the supply chain which, in itself, is inherently difficult to forecast.
Our ability to increase product sales and revenue may be constrained by the manufacturing capacity of our suppliers.
Although we provide our suppliers with rolling forecasts of our production requirements, their ability to provide wafers to us is limited by the available capacity, particularly capacity in the geometries we require, at the facilities in which they manufacture wafers for us.
As a result, this lack of capacity has at times constrained our product sales and revenue growth.
In addition, an increased need for capacity to meet internal demands or demands of other customers could cause our suppliers to reduce capacity available to us.
Our suppliers may also require us to pay amounts in excess of contracted or anticipated amounts for wafer deliveries or require us to make other concessions in order to acquire the wafer supply necessary to meet our customer requirements.
Delays in increasing third-party manufacturing capacity may also limit our ability to meet customer demand.
38 



Table of Contents  



We currently depend on third-party suppliers to provide us with wafers for our products.
We have a supply arrangement with certain suppliers for the production of wafers.
While certain aspects of our relationship with these suppliers are contractual, many important aspects of this relationship depend on our suppliers’ continued cooperation and our management of the supplier relationships.
In addition, the fabrication of ICs is a highly complex and precise process.
Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous ICs on each wafer to be non-functional.
Further, as is common in the semiconductor industry, our customers may reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice.
We might not be able to deliver our products on a timely basis if our relationships with our assembly and test subcontractors are disrupted or terminated.
We do not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality because all of our products are assembled by third-party subcontractors and a portion of our testing is currently performed by third-party subcontractors.
Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assembly and test subcontractors, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we were forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products.
In addition, events such as global economic crises may materially impact our assembly suppliers’ ability to operate.
There may be unanticipated costs associated with adding to or supplementing our third-party suppliers’ manufacturing capacity.
We anticipate that future growth of our business will require increased manufacturing capacity on the part of third-party supply foundries, assembly shops, and testing facilities for our products.
In order to facilitate such growth, we may need to enter into strategic transactions, investments and other activities.
Such activities are subject to a number of risks, including: 



    •   the costs and expense associated with such activities;    



    •   the availability of modern foundries to be developed, acquired, leased or otherwise made available to us or our third-party suppliers;    



    •   the ability of foundries and our third-party suppliers to obtain the advanced equipment used in the production of our products;    



    •   delays in bringing new foundry operations online to meet increased product demand; and    



    •   unforeseen environmental, engineering or manufacturing qualification problems relating to existing or new foundry facilities, including delays in qualification of new foundries by our customers.
These and other risks may affect the ultimate cost and timing of any expansion of our third-party suppliers’ capacity.
As a fabless semiconductor company, we purchase our inventory from third-party manufacturers in advance of selling our products.
We place orders with our manufacturers based on existing and expected orders from our customers for particular products.
In December 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was enacted and includes a broad range of tax reforms, including changes to corporate tax rates, business deductions and international tax provisions.
Some of the significant new requirements include, but are not limited to, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation transition tax on previously deferred foreign earnings, a remeasurement of our deferred taxes due to the change in the corporate tax rate, taxation of certain global intangible low-taxed income under the international tax provisions, and limitations on the deductibility of performance-based compensation for officers.
Some of these provisions, such as the deemed repatriation transition tax and remeasurement of deferred tax assets, had immediate accounting implications which resulted in a significant increase in our tax expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017.
In addition, the deemed repatriation transition tax liability, which is payable over eight years, will adversely impact our cash flows and financial condition in future periods.
It requires the collection of information not regularly produced by us, the use of estimates and the exercise of significant judgment in determining our tax provision.
Furthermore, we will need to evaluate whether changes to our existing processes and controls are necessary to address the financial reporting effects.
The complexity of calculating our tax provision may result in errors that could result in restatements of our financial statements.
Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws such as the 2017 Tax Act, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof and discrete items such as future exercises or dispositions of stock options and restricted stock releases.
We reached a resolution with the IRS in April 2015 and recorded a one-time net charge of $2.7 million to our income tax provision in the second quarter of 2015.
We assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
40 



Table of Contents  



Implementation of an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) or other information technology systems could result in significant disruptions to our operations.
From time to time, we may implement new ERP software solutions or upgrade existing systems.
Implementation of these solutions and systems is highly dependent on coordination of system providers and internal business teams.
We may experience difficulties as we transition to these new or upgraded systems and processes, including loss or corruption of financial, business or customer data.
In addition, transitioning to these new systems requires significant capital investments and personnel resources.
Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential and proprietary information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns.
The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions and delays that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions.
In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data on our internal systems, network and servers, such as proprietary business and financial information, and confidential data pertaining to our customers, suppliers and business partners.
The secure maintenance of sensitive information on our networks and the protection features of our solutions are both critical to our operations and business strategy.
We devote significant resources to network security, data encryption, and other security measures to protect our systems and data.
However, these security measures cannot provide absolute security.
Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and solutions, any destructive or intrusive breach could compromise our networks, creating system disruptions or slowdowns, and the information stored on our networks could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen.
Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time.
Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes.
From time to time we are a party to various legal proceedings.
We and/or our customers could also be prevented from selling some or all of our products.
Finally, interim developments in these proceedings could increase the volatility in our stock price as the market assesses the impact of such developments on the likelihood that we will or will not ultimately prevail in these proceedings.
Historically, we have incurred significant expenses in connection with various legal proceedings that vary with the level of activity in the proceeding.
We may also be subject to unanticipated legal proceedings, which would result in us incurring unexpected legal expenses.
41 



Table of Contents  



Future legal proceedings may divert our financial and management resources.
The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights.
Such litigation is very costly.
We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies.
Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our products.
We pursue patents for some of our new products and unique technologies, and we also rely on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees’ commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our technology, know-how and processes.
Despite the precautions we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future technologies or products, or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
We intend to continue to protect our proprietary technologies, including through patents.
The market for government-backed student loan auction-rate securities has suffered a decline in liquidity which may impact the liquidity and potential value of our investment portfolio.
The market for government-backed student loan auction-rate securities became illiquid in 2008.
Since 2008, we have redeemed 87% of the original portfolio of our auction-rate securities at par and continue to hold $5.6 million in principal amount as of March 31, 2018.
The underlying maturity of these auction-rate securities is up to 30 years.
We have historically recorded temporary and other-than-temporary impairment charges on these investments.
The valuation is subject to fluctuations in the future, which will depend on many factors, including the quality of underlying collateral, estimated time for liquidity including potential to be called or restructured, underlying final maturity, insurance guaranty and market conditions, among others.
If the accounting rules for these securities change, there may be an adverse impact on our earnings.
We face risks in connection with our internal control over financial reporting.
Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial reports.
In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not in the future identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we have not discovered to date, which may impact the reliability of our financial reporting and financial statements.
Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance, and reliability that our products must meet.
ICs as complex as ours often encounter development delays and may contain undetected defects or failures when first introduced or after commencement of commercial shipments, which might require product replacement or recall.
Further, our third-party manufacturing processes or changes thereof, or raw material used in the manufacturing processes may cause our products to fail.
We have from time to time in the past experienced product quality, performance or reliability problems.
Our standard warranty period is generally one to two years, which exposes us to significant risks of claims for defects and failures.
42 



Table of Contents  



In addition, product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products.
Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims.
Our products incorporate commodities such as gold, copper and silicon.
Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other foreign currencies, including the Renminbi, may adversely affect results of operations.
Our manufacturing and packaging suppliers are and will continue to be primarily located in China for the foreseeable future.
In addition, our sales are primarily denominated in the U.S. Dollar.
We incur foreign currency exchange gains or losses related to the timing of payments for transactions between the U.S. and our foreign subsidiaries, which are reported in interest and other income in the statements of operations.
Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the foreign currencies could increase the amount of foreign currency exchange losses we record, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.
Our business is subject to various significant laws and other legal requirements imposed by the U.S. and other countries we conduct business with, including export control laws such the Export Administration Act, the Export Administration Regulations ("EAR") and other laws, regulations and requirements governing international trade and technology transfer.
These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have generally become more stringent over time.
We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations.
We must conform the manufacture and distribution of our products to various laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in many countries as these requirements change.
If we fail to comply with these requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, we could be required to pay civil penalties, face criminal prosecution and, in some cases, be prohibited from distributing our products commercially until the products are brought into compliance.
Environmental laws and regulations could cause a disruption in our business and operations.
We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making manufacturers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products.
Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various European Union member countries and countries in Asia.
43 



Table of Contents  



We and our manufacturing partners are or will be subject to extensive Chinese government regulation, and the benefit of various incentives from Chinese governments that we and our manufacturing partners receive may be reduced or eliminated, which could increase our costs or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China.
The Chinese government has broad discretion and authority to regulate the technology industry in China.
Additionally, China’s government has implemented policies from time to time to regulate economic expansion in China.
It exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies.
Personal privacy, cyber security, and data protection are becoming increasingly significant issues in China.
To address these issues, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress promulgated the Cyber Security Law of the People’s Republic of China (the “Cyber Security Law”), which took effect on June 1, 2017.
The Cyber Security Law sets forth various requirements relating to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data, among other things.
Various Chinese agencies are expected to issue additional regulations in the future to define these requirements more precisely.
These requirements may increase our costs of compliance.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these regulatory requirements.
Any failure to comply with the Cyber Security Law and the relevant regulations and policies could result in further cost and liability to us and could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Additionally, increased costs to comply with, and other burdens imposed by, the Cyber Security Law and relevant regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our suppliers, vendors and other service providers, as well as our customers, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Any additional new regulations or the amendment or modification of previously implemented regulations could require us and our manufacturing partners to change our business plans, increase our costs, or limit our ability to sell products and conduct activities in China, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
The Chinese government and provincial and local governments also have provided, and continue to provide, various incentives to encourage the development of the semiconductor industry in China.
Such incentives include tax rebates, reduced tax rates, favorable lending policies and other measures, some or all of which may be available to our manufacturing partners and to us with respect to our facilities in China.
Any of these incentives could be reduced or eliminated by governmental authorities at any time.
There are inherent risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing and testing facilities in China, which could increase product costs or cause a delay in product shipments.
We face the following risks, among others, with respect to our operations in China: 



    •   inability to hire and maintain a qualified workforce;    



    •   inability to maintain appropriate and acceptable manufacturing controls; and,    



    •   higher than anticipated overhead and other costs of operation.
Average selling prices of semiconductor products in the markets we serve have historically decreased over time.
The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development plans and expenditures may be made up to two years or more in advance of any sales.
It generally takes us up to 12 months or more to design and manufacture a new product prototype.
Only after we have a prototype do we introduce the product to the market and begin selling efforts in an attempt to achieve design wins.
This sales process requires us to expend significant sales and marketing resources without any assurance of success.
Volume production of products that use our ICs, if any, may not be achieved for an additional period of time after an initial sale.
As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenue.
In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy sales cycles raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their orders.
Our sales are made by purchase orders.
Our success depends on our investment of significant resources in research and development.
Our success depends on us investing significant amounts of resources into research and development.
We expect to have to continue to invest heavily in research and development in the future in order to continue to innovate and introduce new products in a timely manner and increase our revenue and profitability.
If we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline.
In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development.
The loss of any of our key personnel or the failure to attract or retain specialized technical and management personnel could affect our operations or impair our ability to grow our business.
Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel.
We are particularly dependent on the continued services of our key executives, including Michael Hsing, our President and Chief Executive Officer, who founded our company and developed our proprietary process technology.
In addition, personnel with highly skilled analog and mixed-signal design engineering expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain existing key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, integrating or retaining other highly qualified personnel with critical capabilities in the future.
If we are unable to retain the services of existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees quickly enough to meet the demands of our business, including design cycles, our business could be harmed.
Furthermore, if we lose key personnel, the search for a qualified replacement and the transition could interrupt our operations as the search could take us longer than expected and divert management resources, and the newly hired employee could take longer than expected to integrate into the team.
45 



Table of Contents  



If we fail to retain key employees in our sales, applications, finance and legal staff or to make continued improvements to our internal systems, particularly in the accounting and finance area, our business may suffer.
We intend to continue to expand our operations, which may strain our resources and increase our operating expenses.
We expect that any such expansion will strain our systems and operational and financial controls.
In addition, we are likely to incur significantly higher operating costs.
To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our systems and controls, as well as hire experienced administrative and financial personnel.
If we fail to do so, our growth will be limited.
We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any company or business that we acquire.
As a part of our business strategy, from time to time we review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, enhance our design capability or offer other competitive opportunities.
As a result of completing acquisitions, we could use a significant portion of our available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, issue equity securities that would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership, incur substantial debt or contingent liabilities, or incur impairment charges related to goodwill or other acquisition-related intangibles.
Some of the risks that may adversely affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from the acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: 



    •   unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired companies or businesses;    



    •   conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations;    



    •   coordinating new product and process development;    



    •   hiring additional management and other critical personnel;    



    •   increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations;    



    •   difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how;    



    •   difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products;    



    •   the risk of undisclosed liabilities of the acquired businesses and potential legal disputes with founders or stockholders of acquired companies;    



    •   our inability to commercialize acquired technologies;    



    •   the risk that the future business potential as projected is not realized and as a result, we may be required to take a charge to earnings that would impact our profitability;    



46 



Table of Contents  



    •   the need to take impairment charges or write-downs with respect to acquired assets and technologies;    



    •   difficulties in assessing the fair value of earn-out arrangements;    



    •   diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and    



    •   adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers.
In addition, third parties may be interested in acquiring us.
We will consider and discuss such transactions as we deem appropriate.
Such potential transactions may diver the attention of management, and cause us to incur various costs and expenses in investigating and evaluating such transactions, whether or not they are consummated.
We also issue restricted stock units to employees, which convert into shares of common stock upon vesting.
In addition, the issuance of a significant amount of our common stock may result in additional regulatory requirements, such as stockholder approval.
We compete against many companies with substantially greater financial and other resources, and our market share may be reduced if we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively.
The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue.
Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit applications and design talent, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products.
We compete with domestic and non-domestic semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products.
We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with many manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength.
The number of our competitors has grown due to the expansion of the market segments in which we participate.
We do not have any control over these analysts.
Major earthquakes or other natural disasters and resulting systems outages may cause us significant losses.
Our corporate headquarters, the production facilities of our third-party wafer suppliers, our IC testing and manufacturing facilities, a portion of our assembly and research and development activities, and certain other critical business operations are located in or near seismically active regions and are subject to periodic earthquakes.
We do not maintain earthquake insurance and could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake.
Much of our revenue, as well as our manufacturers and assemblers, are concentrated in Asia, particularly in China.
Such concentration increases the risk that other natural disasters, labor strikes, terrorism, war, political unrest, epidemics, and/or health advisories could disrupt our operations.
In addition, we rely heavily on our internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties to manage our operations efficiently and effectively.
Any of these are subject to failure due to a natural disaster or other disruption.
47 



Table of Contents  



ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS  



   Exhibit No.
Description  



      31.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1*   Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101.INS   XBRL Instance    



   101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema   



   101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation   



   101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition   



   101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels   



   101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation   



* This exhibit shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any filings.
48 



Table of Contents  



MONOLITHIC POWER SYSTEMS, INC 



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



49 



Table of Contents  



EXHIBIT INDEX 



   Exhibit No.
Description  



      31.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
32.1*   Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
101.INS   XBRL Instance    



    101.SCH   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema    



    101.CAL   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation    



    101.DEF   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition    



   101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels   



    101.PRE   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation    



* This exhibit shall not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any filings.
50
