PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings



The information under the caption “Contingencies” as set forth in “Note 11 – Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part I, Item 1, is incorporated herein by reference.
For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” immediately below.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors



Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
Risks Related to Our Acquisition of Cavium



Our acquisition of Cavium involves a number of risks, including, among others, associated with our use of a significant portion of our cash and our taking on significant indebtedness, other financial risks, integration risks, and risk associated with the reactions of customers, suppliers and employees.
We used a significant portion of our cash and incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of our acquisition of Cavium (the "Cavium acquisition") that will reduce our liquidity and may (i) limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and (ii) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
The benefits we expect to realize from the Cavium acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently.
The challenges in integrating the operations of the companies include, among others:



•difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses;



•difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience;



•difficulties in the integration of operations and systems;



•difficulties in the assimilation of employees;



•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; and



•challenges in maintaining existing, and establishing new, business relationships.
Our and/or Cavium’s existing or prospective customers, licensees, suppliers and/or partners may delay, defer or cease purchasing products or services from or providing products or services to the combined company, delay or defer other decisions concerning the combined company, or otherwise seek to change the terms on which they do business with the combined company.
Any of the above could harm the combined company and thus decrease the benefits we expect to receive from the acquisition.
We may not fully realize the benefits we expect to receive from the transaction, such as increasing revenue or profits, or receive them in the anticipated time frame.
Moreover, the completion of the acquisition and integration of the businesses could result in increased employee voluntary attrition.
Loss of key or skilled personnel could adversely impact product development or other aspects of the Company's business and operations.
On July 6, 2018, in connection with our acquisition of Cavium, we incurred substantial indebtedness pursuant to a Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement provides for a $900.0 million Term Loan.
The Term Loan will mature on July 6, 2021.
As of November 3, 2018, the outstanding principal balance of the Term Loan amounted to $825.0 million.
In addition to the Term Loan under the Credit Agreement, on June 22, 2018, we completed a public offering of (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”) and (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 4.875% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes” and, together with the 2023 Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
We are obligated to pay interest on the Senior Notes on June 22 and December 22 of each year, beginning on December 22, 2018.
The 2023 Notes will mature on June 22, 2023 and the 2028 Notes will mature on June 22, 2028.
Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us including: 



•increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions;



•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness,



thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, execution of our business strategy, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;



•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the economy and the semiconductor industry;



•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness;



•exposing us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate indebtedness; and



•making it more difficult to borrow additional funds in the future to fund growth, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes.
Although the Credit Agreement contains restriction on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued contains restrictions on creating liens and entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness, liens or sale-leaseback transactions incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial.
The Credit Agreement and the Senior Notes contain customary events of default upon the occurrence of which, after any applicable grace period, the lenders would have the ability to immediately declare the loans due and payable in whole or in part.
In such event, we may not have sufficient available cash to repay such debt at the time it becomes due, or be able to refinance such debt on acceptable terms or at all.
We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the United States.
Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities.
Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix and commodity pricing levels could also be considered by the rating agencies.
The applicable margins with respect to the Term Loan will vary based on the applicable public ratings assigned to the collateralized, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC, Fitch’s and any successor to each such rating agency business.
42

The Credit Agreement and the indenture under which the Senior Notes were issued impose restrictions on our business.
The Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes each contains a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business.
These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.
The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments.
These restrictions are subject to a number of limitations and exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes.
Our ability to meet the liquidity covenant set forth in the Credit Agreement may be affected by events beyond our control.
The foregoing restrictions could limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in market conditions or our capital needs.
We do not know whether we will be granted waivers under, or amendments to, our Credit Agreement or to the Senior Notes if for any reason we are unable to meet these requirements, or whether we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
We may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations.
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures.
Our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all.
If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.
In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration.
We may, under certain circumstances, be required to repurchase the Senior Notes at the option of the holder.
We will be required to repurchase the Senior Notes at the option of each holder upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the indenture for the Senior Notes.
However, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the notes in cash at the time of any change of control repurchase event.
Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the indenture for the Senior Notes and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness.
The repayment obligations under the Senior Notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company.
If we were required to pay the Senior Notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives.
Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section:



•our ability to realize anticipated synergies in connection with the Cavium acquisition; 



•changes in general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry;



•the effects of any acquisitions, divestitures or significant investments, including the Cavium acquisition;



•the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor industry;



•our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue;



•severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers; 



43

•our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products;



•any current and future litigation that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business;



•cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory;



•gain or loss of a design win or key customer;



•seasonality in sales of consumer devices in which our products are incorporated;



•failure to qualify our products or our suppliers’ manufacturing lines;



•our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology;



•failure to protect our intellectual property;



•impact of a significant natural disaster, including earthquakes, floods and tsunamis, particularly in certain regions in which we operate or own buildings, such as Santa Clara, California, and where our third party suppliers operate, such as Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim; and



•our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel.
Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid.
Our stock is traded on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the ticker symbol "MRVL".
As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation.
Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers.
We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers.
Net revenue from our two largest customers represented 25% and 34% of our net revenue for the nine months ended November 3, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products.
In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because:



•a significant portion of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with relatively short notice to us;



•customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; 



•customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products;



•customers may develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties;



•customers may be subject to severe business disruptions, including, but not limited to, those driven by financial instability; or



•customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation sold control of a portion of its semiconductor business in 2018), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders.
Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities.
Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including but not limited to:



•diversion of management attention from running our existing business;



•increased expenses, including, but not limited to, legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired or terminated employees;



•key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us;



•increased costs to integrate or, in the case of a divestiture, separate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired or divested business or assets;



•assuming the legal obligations of the acquired company, including potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process;



•ineffective or inadequate control, procedures and policies at the acquired company may negatively impact our results of operations;



•potential adverse effects on reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions;



•potential damage to customer relationships or loss of synergies in the case of divestitures; and



•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.
Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner.
If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as:



•failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals;



•IP disputes or other litigation; or



•difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and infrastructure markets, is extremely competitive.
We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us.
Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures.
For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the infrastructure, networking and SSD storage markets.
Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly.
For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks.
45

Some of our competitors may be better situated to meet changing customer needs and secure design wins.
For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match, such as bundling multiple products and pricing.
In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do.
In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years.
For example, Microchip Technology acquired Microsemi in May 2018, Avago Technologies Limited (now Broadcom Limited (“Broadcom”)) acquired Broadcom Corporation in February 2016 and LSI Corporation in May 2014; Intel acquired Altera Corporation in December 2015; and NXP Semiconductors acquired Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd. in December 2015.
We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results.
One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as “design wins,” to develop products for use in our customers’ products.
We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy.
If a customer’s system designer initially chooses a competitor’s product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers.
Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product.
In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or may be delayed.
Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers’ and potential customers’ specifications.
We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications.
We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that our customers’ system designers will select our product for use in their applications.
Even if our customers’ system designers select our products, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred.
•it can take from six months to three years from the time our products are selected to commence commercial shipments; and



•our customers may experience changed market conditions or product development issues.
We may spend resources on the development of products that our customers may not adopt.
Additionally, even if system designers use our products in their systems, we cannot assure you that these systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant revenue from the sales of our products for those systems.
46

A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD and SSD storage industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies.
The HDD industry is intensely competitive and technology inflections are happening rapidly.
This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction.
These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers participate in this industry.
HDD manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction.
Rapid technological changes in the HDD industry often result in shifts in market share among the industry’s participants.
If the HDD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease.
In addition, the HDD industry has experienced significant consolidation.
Furthermore, future changes in the nature of information storage products and personal computing devices could reduce demand for traditional HDDs.
Although we offer SSD controllers, leveraging our technology in hard drives, we cannot ensure that our overall business will not be adversely affected if demand for traditional HDDs decreases.
SSD customers have, and may in the future develop their own controllers, which could pose a challenge to our market share in the SSD space.
For example, for our products addressing the 5G market, we must successfully identify customer requirements and design, develop and produce products on time that compete effectively as to price, functionality and performance.
In addition, the development of new silicon devices is highly complex and, due to supply chain cross-dependencies and other issues, we may experience delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products.
We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards.
Even if we and our customers introduce new and enhanced products to the market, those products may not achieve market acceptance.
The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high-volume applications.
As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly.
In addition, our more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production expenses.
Therefore, over time, we may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins.
We expect that we will continue to have to reduce prices of existing products in the future.
If we are successful in growing revenue in these markets, our overall gross margin may decline.
We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business.
We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities.
Therefore, we currently rely on several third-party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products.
We also currently rely on several third-party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products.
This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following:



Regional Concentration



Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan, and other sources are located in China, Germany, South Korea, Singapore and the United States.
In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly and testing facilities are located in China, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan.
Because of the geographic concentration of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters including, for example, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, or by political, social or economic instability.
In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming.
No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply



The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations.
When demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained or not available, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order.
It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers.
This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need.
While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries.
Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it would be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components.
This could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow.
48

In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods.
We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us.
Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties.
These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results.
Uncertain Yields and Quality



The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process.
Our technology is transitioning from planar to FINFET transistors.
This transition may result in longer qualification cycles and lower yields.
Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and lower manufacturing yields, which are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct.
Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance.
In addition, we may face lower manufacturing yields and reduced quality in the process of ramping up and diversifying our manufacturing partners.
In addition, defects could result in significant costs.
See also, “Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us.”



To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance, which could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments or increase costs.
Commodity Prices



We are also subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, including gold and copper, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products.
Supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect pricing of such commodities.
In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries.
This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products.
In addition, the cost of developing products with increasingly smaller line width geometries requires significantly higher investment and risk.
We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs.
In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.
We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes.
We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully.
We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones.
If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations.
As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products.
However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all.
Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip.
49

Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Under Bermuda law, our articles of association and bye-laws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current and future investigations and litigation.
For example, we have incurred significant indemnification expenses in connection with the Audit Committee's independent investigation completed in March 2016 and related shareholder litigation and pending government investigations.
In connection with some of these pending matters, we are required to, or we have otherwise agreed to, advance, and have advanced, legal fees and related expenses to certain of our current and former directors and officers and expect to continue to do so while these matters are pending.
Indemnification obligations may not be “covered matters” under our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available.
Further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them.
We cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims.
Additionally, to the extent there is coverage of these claims, the insurers also may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters.
Furthermore, the insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims.
Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy.
From time to time, we have experienced hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products.
Despite our testing procedures, we cannot ensure that errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future.
In addition, the process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources.
Despite our best efforts, security vulnerabilities may exist with respect to our products.
Mitigation techniques designed to address such security vulnerabilities, including software and firmware updates or other preventative measures, may not operate as intended or effectively resolve such vulnerabilities.
Software and firmware updates and/or other mitigation efforts may result in performance issues, system instability, data loss or corruption, unpredictable system behavior, or the theft of data by third parties, any of which could significantly harm our business and reputation.
We have experienced a significant transition at the executive management level in the last two years.
If our executive team is unable to engage and align mid-management or attract and retain the key talent needed for us to timely achieve our business objectives, our business and results of operations could be harmed.
Our executive management team has gone through a complete transition in the last two years, including the hiring of a new President and CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, Chief Operations Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Administration and Legal Officer, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing and the appointment of new leaders for our corporate development organization and our storage, and networking and connectivity groups.
In addition, we have added two new senior executives in connection with our acquisition of Cavium.
While the individual members of our executive management team each have significant industry-related experience, they previously had not worked together as a group and it will take time for them to become an integrated management team.
50

If any of the members of our current management team were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors.
The marketplace for senior executive management candidates is very competitive and limited, particularly in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based.
Our growth may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate such key employees.
Competition for senior leadership may increase our compensation expenses, which may negatively affect our profitability.
We depend on highly skilled engineering and sales and marketing personnel to support our business operations.
We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel.
The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense, both in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based and in global markets in which we operate.
Our inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products.
Changes to United States immigration policies that restrict our ability to attract and retain technical personnel may negatively affect our research and development efforts.
We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace.
The impact on employee morale experienced in connection with our restructuring efforts in fiscal 2017 and 2018, which eliminated approximately 900 jobs worldwide, could make it more difficult for us to add to our workforce when needed due to speculation regarding our future restructuring activities.
We rely upon the performance of our information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect electronic information.
We depend heavily on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business.
We routinely collect and store sensitive data in our information systems, including intellectual property and other proprietary information about our business and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners.
These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, viruses, destructive or inadequate code, malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, internal malfeasance or other events.
We have implemented processes for systems under our control intended to mitigate risks; however, we can provide no guarantee that those risk mitigation measures will be effective.
Given the frequency of cyber-attacks and resulting breaches reported by other businesses and governments, it is likely we will experience one or more breaches of some extent in the future.
We may incur significant costs in order to implement, maintain and/or update security systems we feel are necessary to protect our information systems, or we may miscalculate the level of investment necessary to protect our systems adequately.
Since the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures.
We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from the collection of proprietary technologies we have developed and acquired since our inception, and the protection of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, important to the success of our business.
We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information.
Notwithstanding these agreements, we have experienced disputes with employees regarding ownership of intellectual property in the past.
To the extent that any third party has a claim to ownership of any relevant technologies used in our products, we may not be able to recognize the full revenue stream from such relevant technologies.
51

We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications.
In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
We may also be required to license some of our patents to others including competitors as a result of our participation in and contribution to development of industry standards.
Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology.
Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or other developed countries.
Certain of our software, as well as that of our customers, may be derived from so-called “open source” software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties.
Open source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software.
While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.
We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties.
Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships.
We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments.
Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty.
Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management.
In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand.
We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand.
Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates.
For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our customer’s product development processes, which may include extensive qualification and testing of components included in their products, including ours.
In many cases, they design their products to use components from multiple suppliers.
This creates the risk that our customers may decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand.
Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which may create supply chain cross-dependencies.
We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction.
The risk of obsolescence and/or excess inventory is heightened for devices designed for consumer electronics due to the rapidly changing market for these types of products.
52

We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers’ representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales.
From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers’ representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products.
Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers’ representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time.
Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers’ representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products.
We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States.
All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States.
Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region.
In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks.
Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 88% and 94% of our net revenue in the nine months ended November 3, 2018 and October 28, 2017, respectively.
We also have substantial operations outside of the United States.
These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there.
We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods.
Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including:



•political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions;



•volatile global economic conditions, including downturns in which some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin; 



•compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, including pending changes thereto, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses;



•local laws and practices that favor local companies, including business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations;



•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;



•natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis and floods;



•trade restrictions, higher tariffs, worsening trade relationship between the United States and China, or changes in cross border taxation, particularly in light of the recently imposed tariffs announced by the Trump administration; 



•transportation delays;



•difficulties of managing distributors;



•less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries;



•inadequate local infrastructure; and



•exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks.
Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies.
Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs, or where our third-party manufacturers have significant costs, will increase the cost of such operations which could harm our results of operations.
53

We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business.
We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, which may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: intellectual property ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; data private requirements; competition; advertising; employment; product regulations; environment, health and safety requirements; and consumer laws.
For example, government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products.
If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines.
In addition, we are subject to various industry requirements restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products.
Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with such laws and regulations.
If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions.
The costs of complying with these laws (including the costs of any investigations, auditing and monitoring) could adversely affect our current or future business.
In addition, we are subject to the “conflict mineral rules” promulgated by the SEC, which impose disclosure requirements on us regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products and the procedures our manufacturer’s use to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals.
The ongoing implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products.
Additionally, if we are unable to sufficiently source conflict-free metals, we may face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that the products they purchase from us are conflict-free, which may harm our sales and operating results.
Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results.
Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may also have a significant effect on our reported results.
For example, both the U.S. Congress and the G-20 (Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors) may consider legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities and have a material impact on our results of operations.
Furthermore, in prior years, we have entered into agreements in certain foreign jurisdictions that if certain criteria are met, the foreign jurisdiction will provide a more favorable tax rate than their current statutory rate.
Additionally, our Singapore subsidiary qualified for Pioneer status until it expired in June 2014.
However, we re-negotiated with the Singapore government and in fiscal 2015, they extended the Development and Expansion Incentive until June 2019.
Furthermore, under the Israeli Encouragement law of “approved or benefited enterprise,” our subsidiary in Israel, Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd., is entitled to, and has certain existing programs that qualify as, approved and benefited tax programs that include reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income through fiscal 2027.
Moreover, receipt of past and future benefits under tax agreements may depend on our ability to fulfill commitments regarding employment of personnel or performance of specified activities in the applicable jurisdiction.
Changes in our business plans, including divestitures, could result in termination of an agreement or loss of benefits thereunder.
If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated, our results of operations would be harmed.
The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and issued in 2015, and is expected to continue to issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in some of the countries in which we do business.
The European Commission has also conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland and Belgium, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases.
54

Matters relating to or arising from our Audit Committee investigation, including regulatory proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, in March 2016, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors completed an investigation that generally included a review of certain revenue recognized in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, including transactions that would have, in the normal course of events and but for action by certain Marvell employees, been completed and recognized in a subsequent quarter (referred to internally as “pull-ins”), the accrual of a litigation reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and the stated belief by Marvell’s former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ownership of certain patent rights related to the Final-Level Cache invention and his later assignment of associated patent rights to Marvell.
We are also the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. Attorney related to these matters.
We are fully cooperating with the SEC and the U.S. Attorney with respect to those investigations.
We incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the investigations and related matters and related remediation efforts.
In addition, we incurred significant legal expenses in connection with the litigation and settlement of securities class actions or other lawsuits that were filed against us, our directors and officers.
The expenses incurred, the impact of our delay in fiscal 2016 and the beginning of fiscal 2017 in meeting our periodic reports on the confidence of investors, employees and customers, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that occurred adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations or cash flows.
During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which have since been remediated.
If we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our consolidated financial statements could contain material misstatements which would cause us to issue a restatement thereof.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures.
Among other things, management must conduct an assessment of internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting.
While we have remediated these material weaknesses as of February 3, 2018, the remediation process absorbed significant management attention and we incurred significant expenses relating to the remediation.
A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements would not be prevented or detected.
As with any material weakness, if our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements.
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting will not necessarily prevent all error and all fraud.
Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.
In addition, we may modify the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls, which could affect the overall effectiveness or evaluation of the control system in the future by us or our independent registered public accounting firm.
We cannot ensure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, as controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance.
Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to provide reliable financial reports, or to detect and prevent fraud, which would harm our business.
We have been named as a party to several lawsuits, government inquiries or investigations and other legal proceedings (referred to as “litigation”), and we may be named in additional ones in the future.
Please see “Note 11 - Commitments and Contingencies” of our Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a more detailed description of material litigation matters in which we may be currently engaged.
In particular, litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios.
Under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses for current and former directors and officers.
Litigation may be time consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets.
We had approximately $5.5 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of November 3, 2018.
Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to review our intangible assets including goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable.
We perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment annually on the last business day of our fiscal fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable.
We have identified that our business operates as a single operating segment with two primary components (Storage and Networking), which we have concluded can be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of testing goodwill impairment.
The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by taking our market capitalization as determined through quoted market prices and as adjusted for a control premium and other relevant factors.
If in the future a change in our organizational structure results in more than one reporting unit, we will be required to allocate our goodwill and perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment in each reporting unit.
As a result, we could have an impairment of goodwill in one or more of such future reporting units.
56

In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in private companies.
If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest.
We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred.
If the operations of any businesses that we have acquired declines significantly, we could incur significant intangible asset impairment charges.
If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, there would be adverse tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares.
If we were classified as a “passive foreign investment company” or “PFIC” under section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds ordinary shares, such U.S. holder generally would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares and on any “excess distributions” (including constructive distributions) received on the ordinary shares.
Such U.S. holder could also be subject to a special interest charge with respect to any such gain or excess distribution.
We would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) on average, the percentage of our assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% (determined on an average gross value basis).
We were not classified as a PFIC for fiscal year 2018 or in any prior taxable year.
In particular, because the total value of our assets for purposes of the asset test will be calculated based upon the market price of our ordinary shares, a significant and sustained decline in the market price of our ordinary shares and corresponding market capitalization relative to our passive assets could result in our being classified as a PFIC.
Our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset losses from covered incidents, and we do not have coverage for certain losses.
For example, there is very limited coverage available with respect to the services provided by our third-party foundries and assembly and test subcontractors.
In the event of a natural disaster (such as an earthquake or tsunami), political or military turmoil, widespread health issues or other significant disruptions to their operations, insurance may not adequately protect us from this exposure.
We believe our existing insurance coverage is consistent with common practice, economic considerations and availability considerations.
We are subject to the risks of owning real property.
Our buildings in Santa Clara, California; Singapore; and Shanghai, China subject us to the risks of owning real property, which include, but are not limited to:



•the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with remediating any environmental problems;



•adverse changes in the value of these properties due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors;



•the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements;



•the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving to or renovating the facility;



•increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property, or both;



•increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property, or both;



•possible disputes with tenants or other third parties related to the buildings or the property, or both; 



•failure to achieve expected cost savings due to extended non-occupancy of a vacated property intended to be leased; and



•the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and/or other natural disasters.
57

Risks Related to Owning Marvell Common Shares



There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or effect share repurchases in any particular amount or at all, and statutory requirements under Bermuda Law may require us to defer payment of declared dividends or suspend share repurchases.
In May 2012, we declared our first quarterly cash dividend and in October 2018, we announced that our board of directors had authorized a $700 million addition to our previously existing $1 billion share repurchase program.
An aggregate of $696 million of shares have been repurchased under that program as of November 3, 2018.
Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and future share repurchases will be subject to, among other things: the best interests of our company and our shareholders; our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements; financial condition; developments in ongoing litigation; statutory requirements under Bermuda law; market conditions; and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant.
Our dividend payments or share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares in any particular amounts or at all.
A reduction in, a delay of, or elimination of our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on our share price.
We are incorporated in Bermuda and, as a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States.
In addition, our Bye-Laws contain a waiver of claims or rights of action by our shareholders against our officers and directors, which will severely limit our shareholders’ right to assert a claim against our officers and directors under Bermuda law.
We are organized under the laws of Bermuda.
As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to affect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce against us in U.S. courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States.
There is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, or hear actions brought in Bermuda against us or those persons based on those laws.
The United States and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not be automatically enforceable in Bermuda.
Our Bye-Laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers and directors.
The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties with or for us, other than with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director or to any matter arising under U.S. federal securities laws.
Therefore, so long as acts of business judgment do not involve fraud or dishonesty or arise as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws, they will not be subject to shareholder claims under Bermuda law.
For example, shareholders will not have claims against officers and directors for a breach of trust, unless the breach rises to the level of fraud or dishonesty, or arises as a result of a breach of U.S. federal securities laws.
Our Bye-Laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in corporate control, even if the change in corporate control would benefit our shareholders.
Our Bye-Laws contain change in corporate control provisions, which include authorizing the issuance of preferred shares without shareholder approval.
This provision could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



There were no sales of unregistered equity securities during the three months ended November 3, 2018.
58

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



The following table presents details of our share repurchases during the three months ended November 3, 2018 (in thousands, except per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)The monthly periods presented above for the three months ended November 3, 2018, are based on our fiscal accounting periods which follow a quarterly 4-4-5 week fiscal accounting period.
(2)On November 17, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a $1 billion share repurchase plan.
On October 16, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $700 million addition to the balance of our existing share repurchase plan.
Our existing share repurchase program had approximately $304 million of repurchase authority remaining as of October 16, 2018 prior to the approved addition.
We intend to effect share repurchases in accordance with the conditions of Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, but may also make repurchases in the open market outside of Rule 10b-18 or in privately negotiated transactions.
The share repurchase program will be subject to market conditions and other factors and does not obligate us to repurchase any dollar amount or number of our common shares and the repurchase program may be extended, modified, suspended or discontinued at any time.
59

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



#Management contracts or compensation plans or arrangements in which directors or executive officers are eligible to participate.
*The certifications furnished in Exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 hereto are deemed to accompany this Form 10-Q and will not be deemed “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.
Such certifications will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference.
60
