Item 2.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations



This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof.
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Overview



We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance, application-specific standard products.
Our core strength is developing complex System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits.
We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution.
Our broad product portfolio includes devices for storage, networking and connectivity.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, our net revenue increased year over year by 6% from $572.7 million net revenue in the first quarter fiscal 2018 compared with $604.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase was primarily due to a 4% increase in our storage product sales and 11% increase in our networking and connectivity product sales.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which decreased by 10% in relation to the three months ended April 29, 2017.
23



Pending Business Combination.
On November 19, 2017, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”), pursuant to which one of our subsidiaries will merge with and into Cavium, with Cavium surviving and becoming our wholly-owned indirect subsidiary (the “Merger”).
Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications.
The Merger is primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, we will issue 2.1757 common shares and pay $40.00 per share in cash, without interest, for each share of Cavium common stock.
The merger consideration will be financed by a mix of cash, new debt financing and issuance of our common stock.
Consummation of the Merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of regulatory approvals from China's State Administration for Market Regulation (formerly handled by China's MOFCOM Anti-Monopoly Bureau).
The transaction has already satisfied the following closing conditions: (i) receipt of the required approval by Cavium shareholders, which was obtained on March 16, 2018; (ii) the expiration of the waiting period applicable to the consummation of the Merger under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, which expired on January 26, 2018, and (iii) the receipt of Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. ("CFIUS") approval, which was obtained on May 24, 2018.
In certain circumstances, a termination fee of up to $180 million may be payable by us or Cavium upon termination of the transaction, as more fully described in the Merger Agreement.
For risks related to the pending business combination with Cavium, please see Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors," including but not limited to the risks detailed under the caption "Risks Related to Our Proposed Merger with Cavium."
Capital Return Program.
Our financial position is strong and we remain committed to delivering shareholder value through our dividend program.
We returned $29.8 million to stockholders in the three months ended May 5, 2018 in the form of cash dividend payments.
Cash and Short Term Investments.
Our total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $1.9 billion at May 5, 2018, which was slightly higher than our balance at our fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
Sales and Customer Composition.
Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue.
Net revenue attributable to significant customers whose revenue as a percentage of net revenue was 10% or greater of total net revenue is presented in the following table:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Less than 10% of net revenue



We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of our major customers and distributors and believe the distributors’ sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk.
Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 94% of our net revenue in the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region.
Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty.
See Note 3.
Revenue - "New revenue recognition policy including significant judgments and estimates" for additional information.
Results of Operations



The following table sets forth information derived from our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of net revenue:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017 



Net Revenue



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, we adopted the new revenue recognition standard using the modified retrospective method.
Refer to “Note 3 - Revenue” for further information.
25



Our net revenue for the three months ended May 5, 2018 increased by $31.9 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended April 29, 2017.
This was primarily due to increased sales of our networking and connectivity products by 11% and higher sales of our storage products by 4% related to higher sales of SSD products.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our other products, which were down 10% compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017.
In the three months ended May 5, 2018, unit shipments were 9% higher and average selling prices decreased 4% compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017.
Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was lower for the three months ended May 5, 2018 due primarily to lower manufacturing costs, improved product mix and lower royalty and tape-out expenses.
As a result, gross margin for the three months ended May 5, 2018 increased 1.8 percentage points compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017.
Research and Development



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Research and development expenses decreased by $11.4 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017.
The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of $4.5 million in nonrecurring engineering service fees, a decrease of $2.9 million in technology license amortization expense and $2.3 million in lower personnel costs due to headcount reduction.
Selling, general and administrative



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Selling, general and administrative expense increased by $17.2 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017.
The increase was primarily due to an increase of $15.3 million in merger-related costs.
Refer to “Note 1- Basis of Presentation” for discussion of the pending merger transaction.
26



Restructuring Related Charges



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We recognized $1.6 million of total restructuring related charges in the three months ended May 5, 2018 as the Company continues to execute previously announced restructuring actions.
Interest and Other Income, Net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest and other income, net, increased by $4.0 million in the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2017.
The increase is primarily due to a $2.6 million increase in interest income and a $1.5 million increase associated with foreign currency gain related to the revaluation of foreign currency denominated tax liabilities.
Provision (benefit) for Income Taxes



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our income tax provision for the three months ended May 5, 2018 was $3.8 million compared to an income tax provision of $5.2 million for the three months ended April 29, 2017.
Our income tax provision for the three months ended May 5, 2018 differs from the same period in the prior year due to a reduction of tax expense on income from continuing operations, including discrete items in the quarter, versus the recognition of a discrete item related to changes in prior tax positions, and an additional accrual related to restructurings in the prior period.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017 differs from the statutory federal rate of 21% primarily due to foreign earnings that are taxed at a substantially lower tax rate.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("2017 Tax Act") was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
However, we reasonably estimated the effects of the 2017 Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of February 3, 2018.
There were no additional adjustments made to these amounts in the quarter ended May 5, 2018.
Approximately $550 million of this amount held by foreign subsidiaries is related to subsidiaries whose earnings are undistributed and have been indefinitely reinvested outside of Bermuda.
These funds are primarily held in China, Israel and the United States.
We have plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions or other financing activities.
The amount of undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries for which no deferred tax liability has been provided is $430 million.
If such funds were needed by the parent company in Bermuda or if the amounts were otherwise no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, we would incur a tax expense of approximately $160 million.
We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements and any declared dividends, repurchase of our common stock and commitments for at least the next twelve months.
To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated by operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing.
Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders.
In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares.
Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares and our planned repurchases of common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and our shareholders, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Bermuda law, market conditions and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities



Net cash flow provided by operating activities for the three months ended May 5, 2018 was $128.8 million.
We had net income of $128.6 million, adjusted for the following non-cash items: depreciation and amortization of $20.3 million, share-based compensation expense of $23.9 million, and $1.7 million net loss from other non-cash items.
Cash outflow from working capital of $45.7 million for the three months ended May 5, 2018 was primarily driven by an increase in accounts receivable and a decrease in accrued compensation.
This outflow was offset by an increase in accrued liabilities.
The increase in accounts receivable was driven primarily by an increase in DSO from 45 to 50 days.
The decrease in accrued compensation was mainly driven by a decrease in our bonus accrual due to our annual bonus payout in the current period.
The increase in accrued liabilities was driven by an increase in variable consideration.
28



Net cash flow used in operations for the three months ended April 29, 2017 was $134.2 million.
We had $106.6 million of net income, adjusted for $38.2 million of non-cash items, which was primarily driven by depreciation and amortization of $20.7 million, share-based compensation expense of $24.0 million, the amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets of $1.1 million, and gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $8.2 million.
The cash outflow from working capital of $10.6 million for the three months ended April 29, 2017 was primarily driven by increases in accounts receivable and inventory, as well as a decrease in accrued liabilities when adjusted for the impacts of investing activities, offset by an increase in accounts payable.
The increase in accounts receivable was driven by less favorable sales linearity and a small increase in aged receivables.
Inventories primarily associated with HDD inventory increased in preparation for the next quarter's demand.
The decrease in accrued liabilities when adjusted for the impact of unsettled investment purchases was driven by a reduction of accruals for restructuring expenses and rebates.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities



Net cash flow provided by investing activities was $216.7 million for the three months ended May 5, 2018 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $17.3 million for the three months ended April 29, 2017.
For the three months ended May 5, 2018, net cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by net proceeds for sales and maturities of available-for sale securities and time deposits of $274.1 million, offset by purchases of available-for-sale securities and time deposits of $38.5 million and purchases of property and equipment of $13.6 million.
For the three months ended April 29, 2017, net cash used in investing activities of $17.3 million was primarily driven by purchase of available-for-sale securities of $198.4 million, offset by sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities of $161.0 million and net proceeds of $23.0 million from the sale of our Broadband business.
Cash Flows from Financing Activities



For the three months ended May 5, 2018, net cash used in financing activities of $66.7 million was primarily attributable to $29.8 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, $23.9 million minimum tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements, and $20.5 million payments on technology license obligations.
These outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $11.1 million from employee stock plans.
For the three months ended April 29, 2017, net cash used in financing activities of $205.0 million was primarily attributable to $166.3 million for the repurchases of our common stock, $30.0 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, and $21.8 million minimum tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements.
Contractual Obligations



We presented our contractual obligations at February 3, 2018 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended.
There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three months ended May 5, 2018.
Indemnification Obligations



See “Note 8 – Commitments and Contingencies” in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
29
