Item 1.
Financial Statements



MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In thousands, except par value per share)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements



2

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(In thousands, except per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements



3

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



(In thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements



4

 MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(In thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes to unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements



5



MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Note 1.
Basis of Presentation



The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Marvell Technology Group Ltd., a Bermuda exempted company, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the “Company”), as of and for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, have been prepared as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted as permitted by the SEC.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the Company's fiscal year 2018 audited financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018.
All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.
These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented.
These financial statements should also be read in conjunction with the Company’s critical accounting policies included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended February 3, 2018 and those included in this Form 10-Q below.
The Company’s fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Saturday closest to January 31.
Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period.
The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks.
Fiscal 2018 had a 53-week year.
Fiscal 2019 is a 52-week year.
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”).
Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications.
Cavium designs, develops and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks.
The consolidated financial statements include the operating results of Cavium for the period from the date of acquisition to the Company's second quarter ended August 4, 2018.
See “Note 3 - Business Combination” for more information.
6

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Note 2.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted



In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers that superseded nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under GAAP.
The new standard requires an entity to recognize revenue from the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The guidance addresses, in particular, contracts with more than one performance obligation, as well as the accounting for certain costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer, and provides for additional disclosures with respect to revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
Public entities are required to apply the amendments on either a full or modified retrospective basis for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and for interim periods within those annual periods.
The Company adopted the standard on a modified retrospective basis in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of adoption.
See "Note 5 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In January 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that changes the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to add or clarify guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows.
The amendments in the update provide guidance on eight specific cash flow issues.
The amendments to the guidance should be applied using a retrospective transition method for each period presented and, if it is impracticable to apply all of the amendments retrospectively for some of the issues, the amendments for those issues would be applied prospectively as of the earliest date practicable.
The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that simplifies the accounting for the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers and will require companies to recognize the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Previous guidance required companies to defer the income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets until the asset had been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In November 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that requires entities to include in their cash and cash-equivalent balances in the statement of cash flows those amounts that are deemed to be restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents.
As a result, companies will no longer present transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In January 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that revises the definition of a business.
The amendments provide a more robust framework for determining when a set of assets and activities is a business.
The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
Unless the changes in terms or conditions meet all three criteria outlined in the guidance, modification accounting should be applied.
The three criteria relate to changes in the terms and conditions that affect the fair value, vesting conditions, or classification of a share-based payment award.
The guidance is required to be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date.
The Company adopted the standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
7

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



In June 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standards update that substantially aligns the accounting for shared-based payments to non-employees and employees.
The standard is required to be applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption.
This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company early adopted the standard in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective



In February 2016, the FASB issued a new standard on the accounting for leases, which requires a lessee to record a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.
The standard also expands the required quantitative and qualitative disclosures for lease arrangements.
The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued a new standard requiring financial assets measured at amortized cost be presented at the net amount expected to be collected, through an allowance for credit losses that is deducted from the amortized cost basis.
The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
The standard is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
In August 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that simplifies the application and administration of hedge accounting.
The guidance amends the presentation and disclosure requirements and changes how companies assess effectiveness.
The guidance is intended to more closely align hedge accounting with companies' risk management strategies, simplify the application of hedge accounting, and increase transparency as to the scope and results of hedging programs.
The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
Early adoption is permitted.
The guidance will be applied to cash flow and net investment hedge relationships that exist on the date of adoption using a modified retrospective approach.
The presentation and disclosure requirements will be applied prospectively.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement that is a service contract and costs to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The guidance is effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
Note 3. Business Combination



On July 6, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Cavium (the “Cavium acquisition”).
Cavium is a provider of highly integrated semiconductor processors that enable intelligent processing for wired and wireless infrastructure and cloud for networking, communications, storage and security applications.
The Cavium acquisition was primarily intended to create an opportunity for the combined company to emerge as a leader in infrastructure solutions.
In accordance with the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 19, 2017, by and among the Company and Cavium (the “Cavium merger agreement”), the Company acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Cavium (the “Cavium shares”) for $40.00 per share in cash and 2.1757 shares of the Company’s common stock exchanged for each share of Cavium stock.
The Company also made cash payments for the fractional shares that resulted from conversion as specified in the Cavium merger agreement.
The merger consideration was funded with a combination of cash on hand, new debt financing and issuance of the Company’s common shares.
See “Note 4 - Debt” for discussion of the debt financing.
8

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



The following table summarizes the total merger consideration (in thousands, except share and per share data):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Pursuant to the Cavium merger agreement, the Company assumed the outstanding employee equity awards originally granted by Cavium and converted such shares into the Company’s equivalent awards.
The outstanding vested options held by directors of Cavium were settled in cash as specified in the Cavium merger agreement.
The portion of the fair value of partially vested awards associated with pre-acquisition service of Cavium employees represented a component of the total consideration, as presented above.
The merger consideration allocation set forth herein is preliminary and may be revised as additional information becomes available during the measurement period which could be up to 12 months from the closing date of the acquisition.
Any such revisions or changes may be material.
In accordance with US GAAP requirements for business combinations, the Company allocated the fair value of the purchase consideration to the tangible assets, liabilities and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development, or IPR&D, generally based on their estimated fair values.
The excess purchase price over those fair values is recorded as goodwill.
Goodwill of $3.5 billion recorded for the Cavium acquisition is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
When an IPR&D project is completed, the IPR&D is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and amortized over the asset’s estimated useful life.
The Company’s valuation assumptions of acquired assets and assumed liabilities require significant estimates, especially with respect to intangible assets.
9

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



The purchase price allocation is as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The valuation of identifiable intangible assets and their estimated useful lives are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, except for customer contracts and related relationships, which are amortized using an accelerated method of amortization over the expected customer lives, which more accurately reflects the pattern of realization of economic benefits expected to be obtained.
Useful lives for these IPR&D projects are expected to range between 4 to 9 years.
During the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, the Company incurred $28.2 million and $43.5 million, respectively, in acquisition related costs which were recorded in selling, general and administrative expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As of August 4, 2018, $0.4 million associated with the Revolving Credit Facility was classified in prepaid expenses and other current assets, $1.5 million associated with the Revolving Credit Facility was classified in other non-current assets, and $14.1 million associated with the term loan and senior notes was classified in long-term debt in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
See “Note 4.
Debt” for additional information.
Additionally, the Company incurred $2.9 million of equity issuance costs, which were recorded in additional paid-in capital in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
10

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Since the date of the acquisition, Cavium contributed $41.3 million of the consolidated net revenue for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018.
Cavium net loss incurred in the period ended August 4, 2018 was $120.6 million, which included restructuring costs of $22.3 million.
The pro forma adjustments are based upon currently available information and certain assumptions the Company believe are reasonable under the circumstances.
The following supplemental pro forma information presents the combined results of operations for each of the periods presented, as if Cavium had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal year 2018.
For fiscal year 2018, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the Merger included (i) share-based compensation expense of $37.8 million, (ii) the purchase accounting effect of inventories acquired of $199.7 million, (iii) interest expense of $6.1 million and (iv) transaction costs of $114.6 million.
The supplemental pro forma financial information for the periods presented is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Note 4.
Debt 



On July 6, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Cavium.
In connection with the acquisition (see "Note 3 - Business Combination"), the Company executed debt agreements in June 2018 to obtain a $900 million term loan, a $500 million revolving credit facility and $1.0 billion of senior unsecured notes.
Upon completion of the offering of the senior unsecured notes in June 2018, the Company terminated an $850 million bridge loan commitment.
This bridge loan commitment was provided by the underwriting bankers at the time of the Merger Agreement executed in November 2017.
The bridge loan was never drawn upon.
Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility



On June 13, 2018, the Company entered into a credit agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with certain lenders and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, as the general administrative agent and the term facility agent, and Bank of America, N.A., as the revolving facility agent.
The Credit Agreement provides for borrowings of: (i) up to $500.0 million in the form of a revolving line of credit (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and (ii) $900.0 million in the form of a term loan (“Term Loan”).
The proceeds of the Term Loan were used to fund a portion of the cash consideration for the Cavium acquisition, repay Cavium’s debt, and pay transaction expenses in connection with the Cavium acquisition.
The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility is intended for general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries, which may include, among other things, the financing of acquisitions, the refinancing of other indebtedness and the payment of transaction expenses related to the foregoing.
As of August 4, 2018, the Revolving Credit Facility has not been drawn upon.
Following is further detail of the terms of the various debt agreements.
The Term Loan has a three year term which matures on June 13, 2021 and has a stated floating interest rate which equates to reserve-adjusted LIBOR + 137.5 bps as of August 4, 2018.
The effective interest rate for the Term Loan was 3.912% as of August 4, 2018.
As of August 4, 2018, the entire principal balance of $900.0 million Term Loan was outstanding.
The Term Loan does not require any scheduled principal payments prior to final maturity.
The Revolving Credit Facility has a five year term and has a stated floating interest rate which equates to reserve-adjusted LIBOR + 150.0 bps.
As of August 4, 2018, the full amount of the Revolving Credit Facility of $500 million was undrawn and will be available for draw down through June 13, 2023.
An unused commitment fee is payable quarterly based on unused balances at a rate that is based on the ratings of the Company's senior unsecured long-term indebtedness.
This rate was initially 0.175% per year.
The Credit Agreement requires that the Company and its subsidiaries comply, subject to certain exceptions, with covenants relating to customary matters such as creating or permitting certain liens, entering into sale and leaseback transactions, consolidating, merging, liquidating or dissolving, and entering into restrictive agreements.
It also prohibits subsidiaries of the Company from incurring additional indebtedness, and requires the Company to comply with a leverage ratio financial covenant not to exceed 3 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter.
As of August 4, 2018, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.
Senior Unsecured Notes



On June 22, 2018, the Company completed a public offering of (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”) and (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.875% Senior Notes due 2028 ("the “2028 Notes” and, together with the 2023 Notes, “the Senior Notes”).
The 2023 Notes mature on June 22, 2023 and the 2028 Notes mature on June 22, 2028.
The stated and effective interest rates for the 2023 Notes are 4.200% and 4.423%, respectively.
The stated and effective interest rates for the 2028 Notes are 4.875% and 5.012%, respectively.
The Company may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at any time prior to their maturity at the redemption prices set forth in Senior Notes.
In addition, upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event (which involves the occurrence of both a change of control and a ratings event involving the Senior Notes being rated below investment grade), the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the repurchase date.
12

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Summary of Borrowings and Outstanding Debt



The following table summarizes the Company's outstanding debt at August 4, 2018 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



During the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, the Company recognized $9.1 million interest expense in its consolidated statements of operations related to interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of discount associated with the outstanding Term Loan and Senior Notes, respectively.
As of August 4, 2018, the aggregate future contractual maturities of the Company's outstanding debt, at face value, were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Repayment of Debt and Termination of Credit Facility of Cavium



On July 6, 2018, concurrent with completing the acquisition of Cavium as further described in “Note 3 - Business Combination,” the Company assumed and paid all of Cavium's outstanding debt and accrued interest of $606.6 million.
Cavium's debt was governed under a credit agreement dated August 16, 2016, which was terminated following the repayment.
13

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Note 5.
Revenue



Effect of the Adoption of the New Revenue Standard



At the beginning of fiscal year 2019, the Company adopted the new revenue recognition standard on a modified retrospective basis, with the cumulative effect recognized in retained earnings at the date of adoption.
The Company elected to apply the new revenue standard retrospectively to all contracts that are not completed contracts at the date of the initial adoption.
Based on the Company’s assessment of this new accounting standard, a change in revenue recognition timing on its component sales made to distributors was made in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and the Company started to recognize revenue when the Company transfers control to the distributor rather than deferring recognition until the distributor sells the components.
On the date of initial adoption, the Company removed the deferred income on component sales made to distributors and recorded estimates of the accruals for variable consideration through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings.
The net impact to the opening balance of retained earnings related to the adoption of the new standard was an increase of $34.2 million.
The following table summarizes the effects of adopting the new revenue standard on the Company's financial statements for the fiscal year beginning February 4, 2018 as an adjustment to the opening balance.
Such adjustments were of a non-cash nature.
New Revenue Recognition Policy Including Significant Judgments and Estimates



Through the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018, in accordance with ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, the Company recognized revenue when there was persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery had occurred, the fee was fixed or determinable, and collection was reasonably assured.
If the Company granted extended payment terms greater than its standard terms for a customer such that collectability was not assured, the revenue was deferred upon shipment and would be recognized when the payment became due provided all other revenue recognition criteria had been satisfied.
Product revenue was generally recognized upon shipment of product to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates.
Deferred revenue less the related cost of the inventories was reported as deferred income.
15

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



As a result of the adoption of the new revenue standard on February 4, 2018, at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, the Company revised its revenue recognition policy.
The Company now recognizes revenue upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Under the new revenue recognition standard, the Company applies the following five step approach: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when a performance obligation is satisfied.
To date, the majority of the revenue has been generated by sales associated with storage and networking products.
Revenue from services has been insignificant.
Accordingly, product revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
Actual returns could differ from these estimates.
The Company accounts for rebates by recording reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded.
The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms agreed to with the customer.
The Company’s products are generally subject to warranty, which provides for the estimated future costs of replacement upon shipment of the product.
The Company’s products carry a standard one-year warranty, with certain exceptions in which the warranty period can extend to more than one year based on contractual agreements.
From time to time, the Company becomes aware of specific warranty situations, and it records specific accruals to cover these exposures.
Warranty expenses were not material for the periods presented.
Disaggregation of Revenue



The majority of the Company's revenue is generated from sales of the Company’s products.
The following table summarizes net revenue disaggregated by product group (in thousands, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



1)Storage products are comprised primarily of HDD, SSD Controllers, Fibre Channel Adapters and Data Center Storage Solutions.
2)Networking products are comprised primarily of Ethernet Switches, Ethernet Transceivers, Ethernet NICs, Embedded Communications and Infrastructure Processors, Automotive Ethernet, Security Adapters and Processors as well as Connectivity products.
16

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



3)Other products are comprised of primarily Printer Solutions, Application Processors and others.
The following table summarizes net revenue disaggregated by primary geographical market (in thousands, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes net revenue disaggregated by customer type (in thousands, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contract Liabilities



Contract liabilities consist of the Company’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Company has received consideration or the amount is due from the customer.
Variable consideration estimates consist of the estimated returns, price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs.
As of the end of a reporting period, some of the performance obligations associated with contracts will have been unsatisfied or only partially satisfied.
In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, the Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
The opening balance of contract liabilities at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was $79.6 million.
During the six months ended August 4, 2018, contract liabilities increased by $363.3 million associated with variable consideration estimates for additional shipments in the quarter, offset by $336.7 million decrease in such reserves primarily due to credit memos issued to customers.
The ending balance of contract liabilities as of the second quarter ended in fiscal year 2019 was $106.2 million.
The Company has elected to apply the practical expedient to expense these costs when incurred as the amortization period is typically one year or less.
17

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Note 6.
Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets, Net



Goodwill



Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination.
The carrying value of goodwill as of August 4, 2018 and February 3, 2018 is $5.5 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively.
The change in the carrying value of goodwill from February 3, 2018 to August 4, 2018 was due to the Cavium acquisition.
See “Note 3 - Business Combination” for further discussion of the acquisition.
Acquired Intangible Assets, Net



There had been no new acquired intangible assets in fiscal year 2018, and as of February 3, 2018, the gross value of acquired intangible assets was fully amortized.
In connection with the Cavium acquisition on July 6, 2018, the Company acquired $2.7 billion of intangible assets.
As of the second quarter ended August 4, 2018, net carrying amounts are as follows (in thousands, except for weighted average remaining amortization period):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense from acquired intangible assets for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018 was $25.9 million.
The following table presents the estimated future amortization expense of acquired amortizable intangible assets as of August 4, 2018 (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Note 7.
In connection with the Cavium acquisition, the Company recorded restructuring and other related charges of $35.4 million for the three months ended August 4, 2018.
The Company expects to complete these restructuring actions by the end of fiscal 2020.
Note 8.
Supplemental Financial Information (in thousands)



Consolidated Balance Sheets 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The inventory balance at August 4, 2018 includes $200.4 million related to the inventory step-up adjustment from the Cavium acquisition.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Current accrued liabilities are comprised of the following at August 4, 2018 and February 3, 2018, respectively: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Accrued rebates are classified as part of contract liabilities beginning in fiscal year 2019 upon adoption of the new revenue recognition standard.
(2) Unsettled investment trades represent amounts owed to third parties for investment purchases for which cash settlement has not yet occurred.
(2) The amounts of gains (losses) associated with the Company's derivative financial instruments reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are recorded in operating expenses.
See "Note 10- Derivative Financial Instruments" for additional information on the affected line items in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



The noncash consideration paid for the acquisition of Cavium was $3.3 billion for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018.
Note 9.
Investments



As of August 4, 2018, the Company has $25.0 million time deposits on hand.
Gross realized gains and gross realized losses on sales of available-for-sale securities are presented in the following tables (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



21

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



The contractual maturities of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities are presented in the following tables (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



There are no securities on hand at August 4, 2018 that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position.
Such securities are presented as follows for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



22

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Note 10.
The Company’s policy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts with maturities less than 12 months which mitigates the effect of rate fluctuations on certain local currency denominated operating expenses.
All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in either prepaid expenses and other current assets or accrued liabilities.
The Company reports cash flows from derivative instruments in cash flows from operating activities.
The Company uses quoted prices to value its derivative instruments.
There were no outstanding forward contracts at August 4, 2018 and February 3, 2018.
Cash Flow Hedges.
The Company designates and documents its foreign currency forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges for certain operating expenses.
The Company evaluates and calculates the effectiveness of each hedge at least quarterly.
Ineffectiveness is recorded in interest and other income, net.
For the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, the Company did not have any derivative financial instruments.
These amounts were not material in the three and six months ended July 29, 2017.
The Company did not have hedge ineffectiveness from derivative financial instruments in the three and six months ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
No cash flow hedges were terminated as a result of forecasted transactions that did not occur.
23

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Note 11.
Fair Value Measurements



Fair value is an exit price representing the amount that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or a liability.
Level 2—Other inputs that are directly or indirectly observable in the marketplace.
Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity.
The fair value hierarchy also requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.
The Company’s Level 1 assets include institutional money-market funds that are classified as cash equivalents and marketable investments in U.S. government and agency debt, which are valued primarily using quoted market prices.
The Company’s Level 2 assets include its marketable investments in time deposits, foreign government and agency debt, municipal debt securities, corporate debt securities and asset backed securities as the market inputs used to value these instruments consist of market yields, reported trades and broker/dealer quotes, which are corroborated with observable market data.
In addition, the severance pay fund is classified as Level 2 assets as the valuation inputs are based on quoted prices and market observable data of similar instruments.
The tables below set forth, by level, the Company’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
The tables do not include assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost or any basis other than fair value (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



24

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Fair Value of Debt



The Company classified the Term Loan, the 2023 Notes and 2028 Notes under Level 2 of the fair value measurement hierarchy.
The carrying value of the Term Loan approximates its fair value as the Term Loan is carried at a market observable interest rate that resets periodically.
At August 4, 2018, the estimated aggregate fair value of the 2023 Notes and 2028 Notes was $1.0 billion and were classified as Level 2 as there are quoted prices from less active markets for the notes.
Note 12.
Commitments and Contingencies



Lease Commitments



The Company leases some of its facilities, equipment and computer aided design software under non-cancelable operating leases.
Further, the Company assumed operating leases following the acquisition of Cavium.
Future minimum lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, and payments under technology license obligations as of August 4, 2018 are presented in the following table (in thousands):



25

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Purchase Commitments



Under the Company’s manufacturing relationships with its foundry partners, cancellation of outstanding purchase orders is allowed but requires payment of all costs and expenses incurred through the date of cancellation.
The Company’s indemnification obligations generally do not expire after termination or expiration of the agreement containing the indemnification obligation.
The maximum potential amount of any future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnification obligations could be significant.
26

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



Indemnities, Commitments and Guarantees



During its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain transactions.
Note 13.
Shareholder's Equity 



Following the Cavium acquisition and in accordance with the Cavium merger agreement, certain outstanding options to purchase shares of Cavium common stock and certain restricted stock units with respect to Cavium common stock, each granted under Cavium 2016 Equity Incentive Plan (“Cavium 2016 EIP”), Cavium 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (“Cavium 2007 EIP”) and QLogic 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, as assumed by Cavium effective August 16, 2016 (“QLogic 2005 Plan”), (and collectively, with the Cavium 2016 EIP and the Cavium 2007 EIP, the “Cavium Plans”), were assumed by the Company and converted into options to purchase common shares of the Company and restricted stock units with respect to common shares of the Company, respectively.
The Company filed a registration statement on July 6, 2018 to register 15,824,555 common shares of the Company, issuable under the Cavium Plans, comprised of 2,535,940 common shares issuable pursuant to outstanding but unexercised options under the Cavium Plans and 13,288,615 common shares issuable pursuant to outstanding unvested restricted stock units under the Cavium Plans.
Cavium 2016 EIP



The Cavium 2016 EIP was adopted by Cavium on June 15, 2016 and was intended as the successor to and continuation of Cavium 2007 EIP.
Awards under the Cavium 2016 EIP generally vest over four years and expire seven to ten years from the date of grant.
Following the effective date, no additional awards were granted under the Cavium 2007 EIP.
Cavium 2007 EIP



Cavium adopted the Cavium 2017 EIP in May 2017 upon completion of its initial public offering.
The Cavium 2007 EIP provided for the grant of incentive stock options, non-statutory stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards, stock appreciation rights, performance stock awards, and other forms of equity compensation and performance cash awards, all of which may be granted to employees (including officers), directors, and consultants or affiliates.
Awards granted under the Cavium 2007 EIP vest at the rate specified by the plan administrator, for stock options, typically with 1/8th of the shares vesting six months after the date of grant and 1/48th of the shares vesting monthly thereafter over the next three and one half years and for restricted stock unit awards typically with quarterly vesting over four years.
Awards expire seven to ten years from the date of grant.
27

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



QLogic 2005 Plan



The QLogic 2005 Plan was assumed and registered by Cavium upon its completion of acquisition of QLogic Corporation on August 16, 2016.
The QLogic 2005 Plan provided for the issuance of restricted stock unit awards, incentive and non-qualified stock options, and other stock-based incentive awards.
Restricted stock unit awards granted pursuant to the QLogic 2005 Plan to employees subject to a service condition generally vest over four years from the date of grant.
Stock options granted pursuant to the QLogic 2005 Plan to employees have ten-year terms and generally vest over four years from the date of grant.
Cavium Acquisition-related Equity Awards



The awards under the Cavium Plans assumed by the Company in the Cavium acquisition were measured at the acquisition date based on the estimated fair value of $357.1 million.
A portion of that fair value, $68.9 million, which represented the pre-acquisition service provided by employees to Cavium, was included in the total consideration transferred as part of the acquisition.
As of the acquisition date, the remaining portion of the fair value of those awards was $288.2 million, representing post-acquisition share-based compensation expense that will be recognized as these employees provide service over the remaining vesting periods.
During the three months ended August 4, 2018, the Company recognized $47.1 million of share-based compensation expense in connection with the acquisition of Cavium, of which $37.8 million was due to the accelerated vesting of outstanding equity awards of certain Cavium employees.
Summary of Share-based Compensation Expense 



The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Share-based compensation capitalized in inventory was $2.3 million at August 4, 2018 and $1.3 million at February 3, 2018.
Note 14.
Income Tax



The Company’s tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of its annual effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that arise during the period.
Each quarter, the Company updates its estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if the estimated annual effective tax rate changes, the Company makes a cumulative adjustment in such period.
These losses reduce the Company's pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in its tax expense, and therefore increase its effective tax rate.
On July 6, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Cavium, Inc. (“Cavium”).
The income tax benefit of $30.0 million and $26.2 million, respectively, for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018, included a tax benefit from a net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of $7.5 million and $7.2 million, respectively, and a tax benefit related to other discrete items recorded in the three and six month period of $2.8 million and $2.4 million, respectively.
There were no additional adjustments made to these amounts in the three or six month period ended August 4, 2018.
The Company's gross unrecognized tax benefits were $177.5 million and $23.2 million on August 4, 2018 and February 3, 2018, respectively.
The net increase to the Company's gross unrecognized tax benefits of $154.3 million is primarily the result of certain unrecognized tax benefits recorded in the Company's accounting for the acquisition of Cavium.
The amount of interest and penalties accrued as of August 4, 2018 and February 3, 2018 was $13.9 million and $17.2 million, respectively.
The tax incentives are conditional upon meeting certain employment and investment thresholds.
The impact of these tax incentives decreased foreign taxes by $0.5 million and $1.2 million for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018 respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.5 million for the three and six months ended July 29, 2017, respectively.
The benefit of these tax incentives on net income per share was less than $0.01 per share for both the three and six months ended August 4, 2018 and July 29, 2017.
29

MARVELL TECHNOLOGY GROUP LTD.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ‑ (Continued)



The Company’s principal source of liquidity as of August 4, 2018 consisted of approximately $520 million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $510 million was held by subsidiaries outside of Bermuda.
The Company has not recognized a deferred tax liability on $432 million of the excess financial reporting basis over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries outside of Bermuda that is indefinitely reinvested.
If such amounts were no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, the Company would incur a tax expense of approximately $113 million.
Note 15.
Net Income Per Share



The Company reports both basic net income per share, which is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, and diluted net income per share, which is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and potentially dilutive shares outstanding during the period.
In connection with the Cavium acquisition, the Company issued 153.4 million shares of the Company's common stock at $21.34 per share in exchange for Cavium shares on a 2.1757 to 1 basis as a part of the merger consideration.
The Company also issued 1.1 million shares of the Company's common stock at $21.34 per share in exchange for Cavium employee accelerated awards on a 2.1757 to 1 basis as a part of the merger consideration.
See “Note 3 - Business Combination” for more information.
The equity related merger consideration resulted in increasing basic and diluted weighted average shares by 50.9 million weighted average shares for the three months ended August 4, 2018 and by 25.5 million weighted average shares for the six months ended August 4, 2018.
The computations of basic and diluted net income per share are presented in the following table (in thousands, except per share amounts):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Potential dilutive securities include dilutive common shares from share-based awards attributable to the assumed exercise of stock options, restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan shares using the treasury stock method.
Under the treasury stock method, potential common shares outstanding are not included in the computation of diluted net income per share if their effect is anti-dilutive.
Note 16 — Segment and Geographic Information



The Company operates in one reportable segment — the design, development and sale of integrated circuits.
Refer to “Note 5 - Revenue” for net revenue information based on geographic region.
The following table presents long-lived asset information based on geographic region.
Long-lived assets are based on the physical location of the assets (in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]
