PART II 



Item 1, 1A 



PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION  



ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  



Refer to Note 14 – Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved.
ITEM 1A.
Competition in the technology sector  



Our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources.
Our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers.
Competition among platform-based ecosystems  



An important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions.
A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth.
Establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins.
We face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms.
•  



A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and wearables.
Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces.
They may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer.
We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services.
•  



We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on personal computers.
We face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers.
These devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform.
Users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers.
Even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our PC operating system platforms.
In addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform.
•  



Competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases.
The variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions.
Users sometimes incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms.
To compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our platform and ensure that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value.
46 



PART II 



Item 1A 



Business model competition  



Companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models.
•  



Even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business model, the license-based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue.
We bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products.
Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model.
•  



Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising.
Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.
•  



Some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users, and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products.
These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software.
Some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products.
Our increasing focus on cloud-based services presents execution and competitive risks.
A growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices.
Our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence (“AI”).
At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers.
Pricing and delivery models are evolving.
Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use.
We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies.
The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment.
We are undertaking cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation.
Our intelligent cloud and intelligent edge worldview is connected with the growth of the internet of things (“IoT”).
Our success in the IoT will depend on the level of adoption of our offerings such as Microsoft Azure, Azure Stack, Azure IoT Edge, and Azure Sphere.
We may not establish market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to achieve our business objectives.
These costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved.
Whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including:  



•  



Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share.
•  



Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices, as well as sensors and other endpoints.
•  



Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers.
•  



Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data.
•  



Making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors.
It is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed.
47 



PART II 



Item 1A 



We make significant investments in new products and services that may not achieve expected returns.
We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, Microsoft 365, Office, Bing, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Server, Microsoft Stores, Azure, Office 365, Xbox Live, Mixer, LinkedIn, and other cloud-based offerings.
We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including PCs, tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens.
Investments in new technology are speculative.
Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing.
We may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all.
New products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically.
We may not get engagement in certain features, like Microsoft Stores, Microsoft Edge, and Bing, that drive post-license monetization opportunities.
Our data handling practices across our products and services will continue to be under scrutiny and perceptions of mismanagement, driven by regulatory activity or negative public reaction to our practices or product experiences, which could negatively impact product and feature adoption, product design, and product quality.
Developing new technologies is complex.
It can require long development and testing periods.
In December 2016, we completed our acquisition of LinkedIn Corporation for $27.0 billion.
In June 2018, we announced an agreement to acquire GitHub, Inc. for $7.5 billion.
If an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement.
The success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones.
It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected.
We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
We test goodwill for impairment at least annually.
Our revenue in these markets may grow more slowly than the underlying device market.
Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights.
These include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents.
The number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as Microsoft Surface.
In some countries, such as Germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents.
We may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure.
Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business.
Although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code.
If our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that code.
Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph.
Security of our information technology  



Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms.
Individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our IT.
These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks.
Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access to confidential data.
For example, system administrators may fail to timely remove employee account access when no longer appropriate.
Employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users’ security or systems, or reveal confidential information.
Cyberthreats are constantly evolving, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them.
We may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time.
Cyberthreats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers.
49 



PART II 



Item 1A 



In addition, our internal IT environment continues to evolve.
Often, we are early adopters of new devices and technologies.
We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies.
Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge.
Security of our products, services, devices, and customers’ data  



The security of our products and services is important in our customers’ decisions to purchase or use our products or services.
Security threats are a significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing technology products and services to others.
Threats to our own IT infrastructure can also affect our customers.
Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data.
Adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue.
Adversaries that acquire user account information at other companies can use that information to compromise our users’ accounts where accounts share the same attributes like passwords.
Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access.
We are also increasingly incorporating open source software into our products.
There may be vulnerabilities in open source software that may make our products susceptible to cyberattacks.
To defend against security threats to our internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so.
The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins.
Customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services.
Customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install or enable security patches.
Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us.
Our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, but there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges.
At times, to achieve commercial objectives, we may enter into agreements with larger liability exposure to customers.
As illustrated by the recent Spectre and Meltdown threats, our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem.
As we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers and users.
The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security.
Despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer or user data we or our vendors store and manage.
In addition, third parties who have limited access to our customer or user data may use this data in unauthorized ways.
Our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host.
Government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer or user data in response to valid legal orders.
In the U.S. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure.
Despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities.
Additional security measures we may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses or hinder growth of our products and services.
We may not be able to protect information in our products and services from use by others.
LinkedIn and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures.
In certain cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to limit access to or use of this information.
Changes in the law or interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services.
Abuse of our advertising or social platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement.
For LinkedIn, Bing Ads, and other products and services that provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by third parties, our reputation or user engagement may be negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people or organizations, by use of our products or services to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or by the use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise for objectionable or illegal ends.
We may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure.
Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power.
We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters.
These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as Bing, Exchange Online, Azure, Microsoft Account services, Office 365, OneDrive, SharePoint Online, Skype, Xbox Live, Outlook.com, and Microsoft Stores.
We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users.
Maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex.
It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve.
Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products.
As a leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scrutinize us under U.S. and foreign competition laws.
An increasing number of governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the European Union (“EU”), the U.S., and China.
Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct.
U.S. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business.
51 



PART II 



Item 1A 



The European Commission (“the Commission”) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies.
Flagship product releases such as Windows 10 can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws.
For example, in 2004, the Commission ordered us to create new versions of our Windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols in their own products.
In 2009, the Commission accepted a set of commitments we offered to address the Commission’s concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address Commission concerns relating to interoperability.
The web browsing commitments expired in 2014.
Our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our OEM partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms.
As a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our OEM partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules.
Regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase.
Certain foreign governments, particularly in China and other countries in Asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property.
New competition law actions could be initiated, potentially using previous actions as precedent.
The outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including:  



•  



We may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely.
•  



We are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken.
•  



Our ability to realize anticipated Windows 10 post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited.
Our global operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations.
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (“Anti-Corruption Laws”) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents.
From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere and reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws.
Specifically, we have been cooperating with authorities in the U.S. in connection with reports concerning our compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in various countries.
Most countries in which we operate also have competition laws that prohibit competitors from colluding or otherwise attempting to reduce competition between themselves.
While we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments and collusive activity, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies.
Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws or competition laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation.
Operations outside the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies, and measures, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment.
We may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of U.S. trade sanctions on countries such as Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan, and Syria.
52 



PART II 



Item 1A 



Other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, and online content.
For example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as Skype are covered by existing laws regulating telecommunications services and new laws may define more of our services as regulated telecommunications services.
Data protection authorities may assert that our collection, use, and management of customer data is inconsistent with their laws and regulations.
Legislative or regulatory action relating to cybersecurity requirements may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services.
Legislative or regulatory action could also emerge in the area of AI, increasing costs or restricting opportunity.
Applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
Additionally, these laws and governments’ approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve.
Compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue.
Noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity.
We strive to empower all people and organizations to achieve more, and accessibility of our products is an important aspect of this goal.
There is increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, and customers to make technology more accessible.
The growth of our Internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries.
Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve.
For example, the EU and the U.S. formally entered into a new framework in July 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the U.S.
This framework, called the Privacy Shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the European Court of Justice in a predecessor mechanism.
The Privacy Shield and other mechanisms are currently subject to challenges in European courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers across the Atlantic.
The Privacy Shield and other potential rules on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services in some markets.
In May 2018, a new EU law governing data practices and privacy, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), became effective.
The law, which applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services offered in the EU, imposes a range of new compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data.
Engineering efforts to build new capabilities to facilitate compliance with the law have entailed substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other projects and may continue to do so.
The GDPR imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends in part on how particular regulators apply and interpret them.
If we fail to comply with the GDPR, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply with the GDPR, it may lead to regulatory enforcement actions, which can result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue, private lawsuits, or reputational damage.
The Company’s investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services we deliver to customers, to our operational efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency.
Our ability to use data in this way may be constrained by regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this investment.
Ongoing legal reviews by regulators may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements, including data sovereignty and localization requirements, affecting the location and movement of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data.
Compliance with data regulations might limit our ability to innovate or offer certain features and functionality in some jurisdictions where we operate.
Failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity, as well as negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort.
53 



PART II 



Item 1A 



Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.
Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees.
The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive.
Maintaining our brand and reputation are important to our ability to recruit and retain employees.
We are also limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws.
Changes to U.S. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts.
If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected.
Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success.
Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution.
How employment-related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs.
We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits.
These claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such as Windows 10, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, and employment practices.
In the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult.
The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made.
We may experience quality or supply problems.
Our hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other devices we design, manufacture, and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software.
Our software products and services also may experience quality or reliability problems.
The highly sophisticated software we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation.
Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge.
54 



PART II 



Item 1A 



We acquire some device and datacenter components from sole suppliers.
Xbox consoles, Surface devices, datacenter servers, and other hardware are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins.
These same risks would apply to any other hardware and software products we may offer.
In addition, our international growth strategy includes certain markets, the developing nature of which presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations.
Emerging nationalist trends in specific countries may significantly alter the trade environment.
Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue.
Catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business.
A disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyberattack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions.
Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the Seattle, Washington area, and we have other business operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are seismically active regions.
Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results.
Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs.
Geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some public-sector customers.
Any of these changes may negatively impact our revenues.
The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the IT industry in particular are unclear.
Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other natural resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business.
Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services.
Substantial revenue comes from our U.S. government contracts.
An extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government IT spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenue.
Our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network.
OEMs building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution.
The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption.
55 



PART II 



Item 1A 



Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased.
As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase.
We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global financial markets.
A significant part of our investment portfolio comprises U.S. government securities.
Changes in our sales organization may impact revenues.
In July 2017, we announced plans to reorganize our global sales organization to help enable customers’ digital transformation, add greater technical ability to our sales force, and create pooled resources that can be used across countries and industries.
The reorganization is the most significant change in our global sales organization in our history, involving employees changing roles, adding additional talent, realigning teams, and onboarding new partners.
Successfully executing these changes will be a significant factor in enabling future revenue growth.
As we continue to navigate through this transition, sales, profitability, and cash flow could be adversely impacted.
The development of the IoT presents security, privacy, and execution risks.
To support the growth of the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge, we are developing products, services, and technologies to power the IoT, a network of distributed and interconnected devices employing sensors, data, and computing capabilities including AI.
The IoT’s great potential also carries substantial risks.
IoT products and services may contain defects in design, manufacture, or operation, that make them insecure or ineffective for their intended purposes.
An IoT solution has multiple layers of hardware, sensors, processors, software, and firmware, several of which we may not develop or control.
Each layer, including the weakest layer, can impact the security of the whole system.
Many IoT devices have limited interfaces and ability to be updated or patched.
IoT solutions may collect large amounts of data, and our handling of IoT data may not satisfy customers or regulatory requirements.
IoT scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety.
If IoT solutions that include our technologies do not work as intended, violate the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or enforcement actions.
Issues in the use of AI in our offerings may result in reputational harm or liability.
We are building AI into many of our offerings and we expect this element of our business to grow.
We envision a future in which AI operating in our devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work and personal lives.
As with many disruptive innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business.
AI algorithms may be flawed.
Datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information.
Inappropriate or controversial data practices by Microsoft or others could impair the acceptance of AI solutions.
Some AI scenarios present ethical issues.
If we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm.
Our reputation and brands are globally recognized and are important to our business.
Our reputation and brands affect our ability to attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector customers.
There are numerous ways our reputation or brands could be damaged.
These include product safety or quality issues, or our environmental impact, supply chain practices, or human rights record.
We may experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups, employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering decisions or public policy positions.
Damage to our reputation or our brands may occur from, among other things:  



•  



The introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like.
•  



Public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, data practices, or content.
•  



Data security breaches, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees.
The proliferation of social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand events.
56 



PART II 



Item 2 



ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS  



DIVIDENDS AND SHARE REPURCHASES  



Refer to Note 15 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion regarding dividends and share repurchases.
Following are our monthly stock repurchases for the first quarter of fiscal year 2019: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



All repurchases were made using cash resources.
Our stock repurchases may occur through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan.
The above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock awards.
57 



PART II 



Item 6 



ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*  



Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement 



**  



Furnished, not filed  



Items 3, 4, and 5 are not applicable and have been omitted.
58
