Item 1.
Financial Statements 



MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Balance Sheets



(in thousands, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note: The Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 29, 2018 has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements at that date.
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
2

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)



(in thousands, except per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
3

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unaudited)



(in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
4

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity (Unaudited)



(in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
5

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)



(in thousands)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
6

MTS SYSTEMS CORPORATION



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



(Dollars and shares in thousands, unless otherwise noted)



NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION 



The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany account balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
We have prepared the interim unaudited consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018 filed with the SEC.
Interim results of operations for the first fiscal quarter ended December 29, 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year.
We have a 5-4-4 week, quarterly accounting cycle with our fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to September 30.
Fiscal year 2019 ending on September 28, 2019 will consist of 52 weeks.
Fiscal year 2018 ended on September 29, 2018 and consisted of 52 weeks.
Changes to Significant Accounting Policies



The following accounting policies have been updated since our fiscal year 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Revenue Recognition



As described in Note 2, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments on September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
Our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance are included in Note 3.
NOTE 2 RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 



Leases 



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms greater than 12 months.
Lessees can forgo recognizing a right-of-use asset and lease liability with lease terms of 12 months or less on the balance sheet through accounting policy elections as long as the lease does not include options to renew or purchase the underlying assets that are reasonably certain to be exercised.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, to clarify certain aspects of the new lease standard.
The FASB also issued ASU No.
2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements, which allows the election of an optional transition method to apply the provisions of the new lease standard as of the date of adoption and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings in the period of adoption, while continuing to present all prior periods under previous lease accounting guidance.
In December 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-20, Leases (842): Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors, which clarifies how to account for sales tax and similar taxes collected from lessees, certain lessor costs and recognition of variable payments for contracts with lease and non-lease components.
The aforementioned lease standards and amendments ("the new lease standard") are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
The new lease standard is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach, which includes a number of optional practical expedients and an optional transition method.
Early adoption is permitted.
We intend to adopt the new lease standard for our 



7

fiscal year 2020.
We are currently evaluation our lease portfolio; assessing system needs to support adoption of the new lease standard; and analyzing procedural changes, including updating our lease accounting policy as needed to reflect the new requirements of this standard.
Other



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which changes the accounting for credit losses on instruments measured at amortized cost by adding an impairment model that is based on expected losses rather than incurred losses.
An entity will recognize as an allowance its estimate of expected credit losses, which is believed to result in more timely recognition of such losses as the standard eliminates the probable initial recognition threshold.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments–Credit Losses, which clarifies that a receivable arising from an operating lease that is accounted for by a lessor in accordance with Topic 842 is not within the scope of Subtopic 326.
These standards are required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2021.
The amendments are to be applied using a modified retrospective approach as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which adopted.
Early adoption is permitted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2020.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-13, Fair Value Measurements (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework–Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, which eliminates, amends and adds disclosure requirements for fair value measurements.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period, which is our fiscal year 2021.
Certain disclosures in the amendment are to be applied using a retrospective approach while other disclosures are to be applied using a prospective approach.
Early adoption is permitted.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-14, Compensation–Retirement Benefits–Defined Benefit Plans–General (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework–Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, which eliminates, amends and adds disclosure requirements for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The standard is required to be adopted for annual periods ending after December 15, 2020, which is our fiscal year 2021.
The amendment is to be applied using a retrospective approach with early adoption permitted.
Adopted



In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, "the new revenue standard" or "ASC 606") to provide a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers.
Under the new revenue standard, a company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
Determination of when and how revenue is recognized is based on a five-step analysis.
We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
See Note 3 for our new revenue recognition accounting policy and disclosures relative to this guidance.
In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-04, Liabilities—Extinguishments of Liabilities (Subtopic 405-20): Recognition of Breakage for Certain Prepaid Stored-Value Products, which amends existing guidance on extinguishing financial liabilities for certain prepaid stored-value products.
The new standard requires recognition of the expected breakage amount or the value that is ultimately not redeemed either proportionally in earnings as redemption occurs or when redemption is remote, if issuers are not entitled to breakage.
We adopted the new standard on a modified retrospective basis for the annual period ending September 28, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period.
8

In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory, which requires companies to account for the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
Current guidance requires companies to defer the income tax effects of intercompany transfers of assets until the asset has been sold to an outside party or otherwise recognized.
We adopted the new standard on a modified retrospective basis for the annual period ending September 28, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-07, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost, which changes how employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement benefit plans present the net periodic benefit cost in the income statement.
The new guidance requires the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost to be presented in the same income statement line items as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, with only the service cost component eligible for capitalization in assets.
These components are not eligible for capitalization in assets.
We adopted the new standard for the annual period ending September 28, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period, retrospectively for the presentation in the income statement of the service cost component and the other components of net periodic pension cost and prospectively for the capitalization in assets of the service cost component of net periodic pension cost.
Therefore, the comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
We early adopted the new standard on a modified retrospective basis for the annual period ending September 28, 2019, including interim periods within that annual period.
NOTE 3 REVENUE 



Adoption



We adopted the new revenue standard on September 30, 2018 for our fiscal year 2019 under the modified retrospective transition method.
We applied the new revenue standard to all contracts which were not completed as of the effective date and elected not to apply contract modification guidance retrospectively.
Dependent on contract-specific terms that evidence customer control of the work in process or an enforceable right to payment with no alternative use, certain contracts have a delay in revenue recognition until the customer takes control of the product, while certain contracts accelerate the recognition of revenue over the life of the contract.
Under the new revenue standard, certain costs to obtain contracts (i.e., pre-contract costs) are capitalized at contract inception and recognized as revenue is earned.
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under the new revenue standard.
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract's transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract.
See Note 16 for further information on reportable segments.
Test & Simulation



Test & Simulation manufactures and sells equipment and related software and services which are used by customers to characterize a product's mechanical properties or performance.
Primary Test & Simulation markets include transportation, infrastructure, energy, aerospace, materials science, medical, flight training and amusement parks.
A typical system is a comprehensive solution which includes a reaction frame to hold the prototype specimen; a hydraulic or electro-mechanical power source; actuators to create the force or motion; and a computer controller with specialized software to coordinate the actuator movement and to measure, record and manipulate results.
To complement our Test & Simulation products, we provide our customers with a spectrum of services to maximize product performance including installation, product life cycle management, professional training, calibration and metrology, technical consulting and onsite and factory repair and maintenance.
In addition, we sell a variety of accessories and spare parts.
The manufacturing cycle for a typical system ranges from weeks to 12 months, depending on the complexity of the system and the availability of components, and can be up to three years for larger, more complex systems.
Test & Simulation contracts often have multiple performance obligations, most commonly due to the contract covering multiple phases of the product life cycle (i.e., equipment design and production, installation and commissioning, extended warranty and software maintenance).
Test & Simulation revenue is recognized either over time as work progresses or point-in-time, depending on contract-specific terms and the pattern of transfer of control of the product or service to the customer.
Revenue from services is recognized in the period the service is performed or ratably over the period of the related service contract.
Equipment revenue is recognized over time using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying the performance obligation.
Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the customer.
Equipment revenue is recognized point-in-time when either: (i) control is transferred to the customer at a point-in-time when obligations under the terms of the contract are satisfied; or (ii) contract terms do not evidence customer control of the work in process or an enforceable right to payment with no alternative use, and consequently revenue is deferred as work progresses.
Satisfaction of performance obligations under the terms of the contract occurs either upon product shipment (as evidenced by delivery or shipment terms), completion of equipment installation and commissioning, or customer acceptance.
For our Test & Simulation contracts with customers, payment terms vary and are subject to negotiation.
Typical payment terms include progress payments based on specified events or milestones.
For some contracts, we are entitled to receive an advance payment.
Sensors



Our Sensors segment (Sensors) manufactures and sells high-performance sensors which provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications.
Our Sensors contracts generally have a single performance obligation which is satisfied at a point in time.
The performance obligation is a stand-alone sensor product, accessory, service or software license.
Sensors contracts are generally fixed-price purchase order fulfillment contracts, and the transaction price is equal to the observable consideration in the contract.
Revenue is recognized when obligations under the terms of the contract with our customer are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control upon product shipment (as evidenced by shipment or delivery terms) or with the performance of the service.
For our Sensors contracts with customers, payment terms are generally within 90 days.
For certain high-volume contracts, we are entitled to receive an advance payment.
12

Disaggregation of Revenue



We disaggregate our revenue by reportable segment, sales type (product or service), the timing of recognition of revenue for transfer of goods or services to customers (point-in-time or over time), and geographic market based on the billing location of the customer.
See Note 16 for further information on our reportable segments and intersegment revenue.
Contract balances are classified as assets or liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
Contract liabilities represent payments received from customers at contract inception and at milestones per contract provisions.
Conversely, when billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition for contracts recognized over time, balances are recorded in unbilled accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As customers are billed, unbilled accounts receivable balances are transferred to accounts receivable, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
13

Significant changes in contract assets and contract liabilities are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 See Note 18 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
Remaining Performance Obligations



As of December 29, 2018, we had approximately $197,600 of remaining performance obligations on contracts with an original expected duration of one year or more which are primarily related to Test & Simulation.
We do not disclose the value of remaining performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
Contract Estimates



For contracts recognized over time, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract.
These assumptions include labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, and internal and subcontractor performance.
Pricing is established at or prior to the time of sale with our customers, and we record sales at the agreed-upon selling price.
In general, variable consideration in our contracts relates to the entire contract.
As a result, the variable consideration is allocated proportionately to all performance obligations.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method.
Under this method, the impact of the adjustment on profit recorded to date is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified.
Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance is recognized using the adjusted estimate.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss in the period it is identified.
Contract modifications that are for goods or services that are not distinct from the existing contract, due to the significant integration with the original product or service provided, are accounted for as if they were part of that existing contract.
Warranties and Returns



For both Test & Simulation and Sensors, we provide a manufacturer's warranty on our products and systems which is included in customer contracts.
At the time a sale is recognized, we record estimated future warranty costs.
We also offer separately-priced extended warranties or service-type contracts on certain products for which revenue is recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered.
When the right of return exists, we recognize revenue for the transferred products at the expected amount of consideration for which we will be entitled.
Capitalized pre-contract costs, consisting primarily of Test & Simulation sales commissions, are amortized as the related revenue is recognized.
NOTE 4 INVENTORIES 



Inventories consist of material, labor and overhead costs and are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value determined under the first-in, first-out accounting method.
Certain inventories are measured using the weighted average cost method.
Inventories, net are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We adopted the new revenue standard effective September 30, 2018 under the modified retrospective transition method.
See Note 3 for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
NOTE 5 WARRANTY OBLIGATIONS 



Sales of our products and systems are subject to limited warranty obligations that are included in customer contracts.
For sales that include installation services, warranty obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of either shipment or acceptance based on the contract terms.
Product obligations generally extend for a period of 12 to 24 months from the date of purchase.
Certain products offered in our Sensors segment include a lifetime warranty.
Under the terms of these warranties, we are obligated to repair or replace any components or assemblies deemed defective due to workmanship or materials.
We record general warranty provisions based on an estimated warranty expense percentage applied to current period revenue.
The percentage applied reflects our historical warranty claims experience over the preceding 12-month period.
Both the experience percentage and the warranty liability are evaluated on an ongoing basis for adequacy.
15

Changes to accrued warranty costs are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 6 CAPITAL ASSETS 



Property and Equipment



Property and equipment, net are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Goodwill



Changes to the carrying amount of goodwill are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 See Note 18 for additional information regarding acquisitions.
Intangible Assets



Intangible assets are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



16

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense recognized is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Estimated future amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets is as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Future amortization amounts presented above are estimates.
When considering market participant assumptions in fair value measurements, the following fair value hierarchy distinguishes between observable and unobservable inputs, which are categorized in one of the following levels:



•Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices which are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities accessible to us at the measurement date.
•Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1, as this level provides the most reliable measure of fair value, while giving the lowest priority to Level 3.
17

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



Financial assets and liabilities subject to fair value measurements on a recurring basis are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



1 Based on observable market transactions of spot currency rates and forward currency rates on equivalently-termed instruments.
Carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities are equal to the fair value.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
2 Based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and spot rates.
Carrying amount of the financial asset is equal to the fair value.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis



We measure certain financial instruments at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
These assets primarily include goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets acquired either as part of a business acquisition, individually or with a group of other assets, as well as property and equipment.
These assets were initially measured and recognized at amounts equal to the fair value determined as of the date of acquisition or purchase subject to changes in value only for foreign currency translation.
Periodically, these assets are tested for impairment by comparing their respective carrying values to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit or asset group in which they reside.
In the event any of these assets were to become impaired, we would recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, impaired asset or asset group exceeds its estimated fair value.
Fair value measurements of the reporting units associated with our goodwill balances and our indefinite-lived intangible assets are estimated at least annually in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year for purposes of impairment testing if a quantitative analysis is performed.
See Note 6 for additional information on goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, other long-lived assets and property and equipment.
Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value



Certain financial instruments are not measured at fair value but are recorded at carrying amounts approximating fair value based on their short-term nature or variable interest rate.
These financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term borrowings.
18

Other Financial Instruments



Other financial instruments subject to fair value measurements include debt, which is recorded at carrying value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The estimated fair value of these long-term obligations is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange.
See Note 13 for additional information on the TEUs.
2 The fair value of the tranche B term loan is based on the most recently quoted market price for the outstanding debt instrument, adjusted for any known significant deviations in value.
The estimated fair value of the debt obligation is not necessarily indicative of the amount that would be realized in a current market exchange.
See Note 9 for additional information on debt instruments.
NOTE 8 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 



Our currency exchange contracts and interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and qualify as hedging instruments.
We also have derivatives which are not designated as cash flow hedges and, therefore, are accounted for and reported under foreign currency guidance.
Regardless of designation for accounting purposes, we believe all of our derivative instruments are hedges of transactional risk exposures.
The fair value of our outstanding designated and undesignated derivative assets and liabilities are reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



A reconciliation of the net fair value of designated hedge derivatives subject to master netting arrangements that are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets to the net fair value that could have been reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cash Flow Hedging – Currency Risks



Currency exchange contracts utilized to maintain the functional currency value of expected financial transactions denominated in foreign currencies are designated as cash flow hedges.
We periodically assess whether our currency exchange contracts are effective and, when a contract is determined to be no longer effective as a hedge, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively.
As of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $37,953 and $39,856, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding was $22,804 and $29,315 as of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, respectively.
As of December 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $235, consisting of $405 in assets and $170 in liabilities.
As of September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign currency exchange contracts was a net asset of $816, consisting of $989 in assets and $173 in liabilities.
The maximum remaining maturity of any forward or optional contract as of December 29, 2018 was 1.3 years.
Interest Rate Swaps



On October 20, 2016, we entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap agreement to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases related to a portion of our tranche B term loan facility.
The total notional amount of the interest rate swap was $225,000 as of December 29, 2018.
The swap agreement expires April 3, 2021.
As a result of this agreement, every month we pay fixed interest at 1.256% in exchange for interest received at one month U.S. LIBOR.
The market value of the interest rate swap as of December 29, 2018 was an asset of $4,889.
The interest rate swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
As a result, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recorded in AOCI within shareholders' equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Foreign Currency Balance Sheet Derivatives



We also use foreign currency derivative contracts to maintain the functional currency value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional foreign currencies.
As of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency balance sheet derivative contracts with gross notional U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of $130,780 and $90,816, respectively.
Upon netting offsetting contracts by counterparty banks to sell foreign currencies against contracts to purchase foreign currencies, irrespective of contract maturity dates, the net notional U.S. dollar equivalent amount of contracts outstanding as of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018 was $40,991 and $28,271, respectively.
As of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, the net market value of the foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts was a net liability of $588 and a net asset of $91, respectively.
The net gain (loss) recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income on foreign exchange balance sheet derivative contracts is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



21

NOTE 9 FINANCING



Long-term debt consists of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 See Note 13 for additional information on our TEUs issued in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Tranche B Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility



We have a credit agreement with U.S. Bank National Association and HSBC Bank USA, National Association as Co-Documentation Agents, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
as Administrative Agent and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.
and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as Joint Bookrunners and Joint Lead Arrangers (the Credit Agreement).
The Credit Agreement as amended provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a $150,000 revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility), which expires on July 5, 2022, and a $460,000 tranche B term loan facility (the Term Facility) which expires on July 5, 2023.
The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility can be drawn upon to refinance existing indebtedness, for working capital and other general corporate purposes up to a maximum of $150,000.
The Term Facility amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 1% of the original principal amount.
The proceeds of the Term Facility were used for financing the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB) in fiscal year 2016.
Borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility were used for financing the acquisition of E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, in conjunction with the E2M acquisition, we entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement to increase the borrowing capacity on the Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and extend the expiration date of the Revolving Credit Facility from July 5, 2021 to July 5, 2022.
During the three months ended December 29, 2018, we incurred debt financing costs of $541 as a result of this amendment which were capitalized in current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The primary categories of borrowing include Alternate Base Rate (ABR) Borrowing (ABR Term Loans and ABR Revolving Loans), Swingline Loans and Eurocurrency Borrowing (each as defined in the Credit Agreement).
ABR Borrowings and Swingline Loans made in U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the ABR plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
The ABR is defined as the greater of (a) the Prime Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day, (b) the New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) in effect on such day plus ½ of 1.00%, or (c) the Adjusted LIBOR (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for a one-month interest period in dollars on such day plus 1.00%.
The ABR for ABR Term Loans shall not be less than 1.75% per annum.
The Applicable Rate for any ABR Revolving Loans will be based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.
As of December 29, 2018, the Applicable Rate for ABR Term Loans was 2.25% per annum.
22

Eurocurrency Borrowings made under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Adjusted LIBOR Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
The Adjusted LIBOR Rate is defined as an interest rate per annum equal to (a) the LIBOR Rate for such interest period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
The Applicable Rate for any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan is based upon the leverage ratio applicable on such date.
The Adjusted LIBOR Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans shall not be less than 0.75% per annum.
Based on our leverage ratio as of December 29, 2018, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Revolving Loans was 3.00%.
As of December 29, 2018, the Applicable Rate for Eurocurrency Term Loans was 3.25% per annum, plus the applicable Adjusted LIBOR Rate of 2.46%.
The weighted average interest rate on Term Facility debt during the three months ended December 29, 2018 was 5.57%.
As of December 29, 2018, there was $80,391 of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility which is included in long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of September 29, 2018, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility.
We had outstanding letters of credit drawn from the Revolving Credit Facility totaling $20,221 and $20,448 as of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, respectively, leaving approximately $49,388 and $99,552, respectively, of unused borrowing capacity.
Commitment fees are payable on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility at rates between 0.25% and 0.40% based on our leverage ratio.
During the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, commitment fees incurred totaled $72 and $79, respectively.
The Credit Agreement governing the Term Facility requires us to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, depending on the leverage ratio with (a) up to 50% of the our annual Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) and (b) 100% of the net cash proceeds of (i) certain asset sales and casualty and condemnation events, subject to reinvestment rights and certain other exceptions; and (ii) any incurrence or issuance of certain debt, other than debt permitted under the Credit Agreement.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees, and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults).
The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before income, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.
As of December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
See Note 7 for additional information on the fair value of the tranche B term loan and the TEU debt.
Interest Rate Swaps



On October 20, 2016, in order to mitigate our exposure to interest rate increases on our variable rate debt, we entered into a variable to fixed amortizing interest rate swap.
See Note 8 for additional information on derivative financial instruments.
The interest rate swap will be reduced to the following notional amounts over the next three years:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 10 STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION



We compensate our officers, directors and employees with stock-based compensation under the 2017 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2017 Plan) approved by our shareholders and administered under the supervision of our Board of Directors.
As of December 29, 2018, a total of 967 shares were available for issuance under the 2017 Plan.
We make an annual stock grant under the 2017 Plan of stock options, restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units, as well as stock grants throughout the fiscal year.
For fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, the annual stock grant occurred in December 2018, April 2018 and April 2017, respectively.
23

Stock Options



During the three months ended December 29, 2018, 230 stock options were granted at a weighted average fair value of $9.89.
During the three months ended December 30, 2017, no stock options were granted.
Restricted Stock Units and Performance Restricted Stock Units



We award restricted stock units to directors and key employees and performance restricted stock units to key employees.
During the three months ended December 29, 2018, we granted 106 restricted stock units and 40 performance restricted stock units to directors, officers and employees.
During the three months ended December 30, 2017, we granted 1 restricted stock units and no performance restricted stock units.
The fair value of the restricted stock units and performance restricted stock units granted during the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was $45.80 and $51.78, respectively, representing the market value of our shares as of the date of grant less the present value of estimated foregone dividends over the vesting period.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan



Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in the 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2012 ESPP) approved by our shareholders.
As of December 29, 2018, 615 shares were available for issuance under the 2012 ESPP.
During the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, we issued no shares under the 2012 ESPP.
NOTE 11 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS



We sponsor a non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan for eligible employees of one of our German subsidiaries.
Net periodic benefit cost for our defined benefit pension plan includes the following components:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each of the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 was 5.5%.
However, in March 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-05, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, which incorporates various SEC paragraphs from Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 into income tax accounting guidance effective immediately, allowing registrants to record provisional amounts during a one-year measurement period.
24

Excluding the impact of certain discrete benefits in the current and prior year, the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 was essentially flat compared to the same prior year period.
Factors that increased the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provision.
As of December 29, 2018, we do not expect significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.
NOTE 13 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



Tangible Equity Units



During the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we issued 1,150 TEUs in a registered public offering primarily to finance the acquisition of PCB, to repay amounts outstanding under our existing revolving credit facility and to pay related costs, fees and expenses.
Total proceeds, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses were $110,926.
Each TEU has a stated amount of $100 per TEU and is comprised of a prepaid stock purchase contract and a senior amortizing note having a final installment payment date of July 1, 2019.
We allocated the proceeds from the issuance of the TEUs between equity and debt based on the relative fair values of the respective components of each TEU.
The fair value of the prepaid stock purchase contracts, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was recorded in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The fair value of the senior amortizing note, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and other expenses, was split between current maturities of long-term debt, net and long-term debt, less current maturities, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Underwriting discounts, commissions and other costs directly associated with the TEU-related debt will be amortized using the effective interest rate method over the three-year term of the instrument.
The aggregate values assigned upon issuance to each component of the TEUs, based on the relative fair value of the respective components, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1 The fair value price allocation between equity and debt for each TEU was determined using a discounted cash flow model.
Equity Component



Unless converted earlier at the option of the holder, each prepaid stock purchase contract will automatically settle on July 1, 2019.
If converted prior to the automatic settlement date at the option of the holder, the minimum of 1.9841 shares of our common stock are delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract.
On the automatic settlement date, a minimum of 1.9841 shares and a maximum of 2.3810 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment based upon the applicable market value discussed below, will be delivered to the holder of each prepaid stock purchase contract at the settlement date.
25

The number of shares of our common stock issuable upon settlement of each purchase contract on July 1, 2019 will be determined as follows: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The "applicable market value" is defined as the average of the daily volume-weighted average price of the common stock on each of the 20 consecutive trading days beginning on, and including, the 23rd scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 1, 2019.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, certain holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component on 473 of our outstanding TEUs at the minimum conversion rate of 1.9841 which resulted in the issuance of 939 shares of our common stock.
During fiscal years 2019 and 2018, no holders of our TEUs elected to early convert the equity component of our outstanding TEUs.
There were 677 units of the equity component of TEUs outstanding as of both December 29, 2018 and September 29, 2018.
Debt Component



The amortizing senior note was issued with an initial principal amount of $27,386, or $23.8136 per TEU.
Equal quarterly cash installments of $2.1875 per amortizing note are paid, which in the aggregate are equivalent to a 8.75% cash distribution per year with respect to each $100 stated amount per TEU.
Each installment constitutes a payment of interest and partial repayment of principal.
The 1.9841 minimum shares to be issued are included in the calculation of basic weighted average shares outstanding.
The 0.3969 difference between the minimum shares and the 2.3810 maximum shares are potentially dilutive, and accordingly, are included in our diluted earnings per share on a pro rata basis to the extent the applicable market value is higher than the reference price but less than the threshold appreciation price.
See Note 14 for additional information regarding the calculation of earnings per share.
Capped Calls



In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
The initial Capped Calls were for 2,282 equivalent shares of our common stock with a strike price of $50.40, a cap price of $58.80 and an expiration date of July 1, 2019.
The value of the Capped Calls is settled with shares of our common stock, based on the approximate market value of our common stock at such time, and could be settled as the TEUs were early converted or settled upon expiration on July 1, 2019 (Capped Call Expiration).
No Capped Calls were settled during fiscal years 2019 and 2018.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.
The Capped Calls will be automatically settled upon Capped Call Expiration with shares of our common stock based on the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements.
As of December 29, 2018, the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, which will be realized if the average market value of our common stock as defined in the Capped Call Agreements is at or below $50.40 or at $57.97, respectively, upon Capped Call Expiration.
NOTE 14 EARNINGS PER SHARE 



Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the daily weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the applicable period.
The TEUs are assumed to be settled at the minimum settlement amount of 1.9841 shares per TEU when calculating weighted-average common shares outstanding for purposes of basic earnings per share.
26

Using the treasury stock method, diluted earnings per share includes the potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock-based compensation options and grants.
The potentially dilutive effect of common shares issued in connection with outstanding stock options is determined based on the average market price for the period.
Under the treasury stock method, shares associated with certain stock options have been excluded from the diluted weighted average shares outstanding calculation because the exercise of those options would lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution.
As a result, stock options to acquire 930 and 496 weighted common shares have been excluded from the diluted weighted average common shares outstanding calculation for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, respectively.
In connection with the pricing of the TEUs, we purchased capped calls.
The capped calls will not be reflected in the calculation of diluted earnings per share until settled as they will lead to a net reduction in common shares outstanding or anti-dilution.
See Note 13 for additional information on our equity instruments.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 15 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



Other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders' equity, consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, gains or losses on derivative instruments and defined benefit pension plan adjustments.
Income tax expense or benefit allocated to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



27

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The changes in the net-of-tax balances of each component of AOCI are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



28

The effect on certain line items in the Consolidated Statements of Income of amounts reclassified out of AOCI are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



1 Change in classification of actuarial loss on defined benefit pension plan related to the adoption of ASU No.
2017-07 in fiscal year 2019.
See Note 2 for additional information on the impact of adoption.
Test & Simulation manufactures and sells equipment and related software and services which are used by customers to characterize a product's mechanical properties or performance.
Sensors manufactures and sells high-performance sensors which provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications.
In evaluating each segment's performance, our Chief Executive Officer focuses on income from operations.
Intersegment revenue is based on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the reportable segments.
29

Financial information by reportable segment is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



NOTE 17 RESTRUCTURING AND RELATED COSTS



Fiscal Year 2018 Restructuring



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018, we initiated a Test & Simulation workforce reduction intended to simplify the organization and reduce the overall cost structure.
No restructuring expenses were recognized in the three months ended December 29, 2018 or December 30, 2017 related to this restructuring action.
As of December 29, 2018, we have incurred a total of $880 of pre-tax severance and related expense.
Remaining expenses are expected to be paid in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Fiscal Year 2017 Restructuring



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test & Simulation workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
These actions include the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner throughout fiscal years 2018 and 2019.
As a result, during the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017, we recorded $130 and $93 of pre-tax severance and related expense, respectively, and $0 and $162 of pre-tax facility closure costs, respectively.
Remaining expenses are expected to be paid in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Based in Amsterdam, Netherlands, E2M is a leading manufacturer of high force, electrically driven actuation systems, serving primarily the human-rated entertainment and training simulation markets.
The acquisition of E2M expands our technology and product offerings for human-rated simulation systems and brings key regulatory approvals and customers in the flight simulation and entertainment markets.
The transaction was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting.
During the three months ended December 29, 2018, we included $3,521 of revenue from E2M in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
Costs of $773 associated with the acquisition of E2M were expensed as incurred.
31

The following table summarizes the preliminary fair value measurement of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed net of cash acquired, as of the date of acquisition: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The allocation of purchase price consideration is considered preliminary as of December 29, 2018 with provisional amounts primarily related to inventory, intangible assets, advanced payments to customers and certain tax related items included as our allocation process has not been completed.
We expect to finalize the allocation of purchase price as soon as possible, but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
Goodwill was calculated as the difference between the acquisition date fair value of the total purchase price consideration and the fair value of the net assets acquired and represents the future economic benefits that we expect to achieve as a result of the acquisition.
This resulted in a purchase price in excess of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
The purchase price also included the fair value of other assets that were not identifiable, not separately recognizable under accounting rules (e.g., assembled workforce) or of immaterial value.
All of the goodwill was assigned to Test & Simulation.
The preliminary fair value of the acquired intangible assets was $43,362.
The acquired intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over the useful lives identified in the table above.
32
