Item 3.
These non-functional currency transactions expose us to market risk on assets, liabilities and cash flows recognized on these transactions.
A hypothetical 10% appreciation or depreciation in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, assuming all other variables are held constant, would result in an increase or decrease in revenue of approximately $22,719 for the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
We have operational procedures to mitigate these non-functional currency exposures.
We also utilize foreign currency exchange contracts to exchange currencies at set exchange rates on future dates to offset expected gains or losses on specifically identified exposures.
Mark-to-market gains and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges in our currency hedging program are recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We recognize gains and losses associated with the fair value of cash flow hedges at the time a gain or loss is recognized on the hedged exposure in the Consolidated Statements of Income or at the time the cash flow hedge is determined to be ineffective.
Net gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income, were net losses of $73 and $2,588 in the nine months ended June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.
See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our cash flow hedge currency exchange contracts.
On floating-rate investments, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest income, respectively.
On floating-rate debt, increases or decreases in market interest rates will increase or decrease future interest expense, respectively.
As of June 30, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $66,403, some of which was invested in interest-bearing bank deposits or money market funds.
The interest-bearing bank deposits and money market funds have interest rates that reset every 1 to 89 days and generate interest income that will vary based on changes in short-term interest rates.
A hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in market interest rates, assuming all other variables were held constant, would decrease interest income by approximately $171 for the nine months ended June 30, 2018.
Secured floating rate credit facilities require interest payments to be calculated at a floating rate and are therefore impacted by increases or decreases in market interest rates.
We have swapped a portion of our floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate such that the interest expense on this debt will not vary with changes in short-term interest rates.
See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information on our interest rate swaps.
A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in floating interest rates, assuming all other variables were held constant, would result in an approximately $2,413 increase in future annual interest expense.
41
