Item 2.
Our MD&A is presented in nine sections:



•Overview



•Financial Results



•Cash Flow Comparison



•Liquidity and Capital Resources



•Off-balance Sheet Arrangements



•Critical Accounting Policies



•Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



•Other Matters



•Forward-looking Statements



Our MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
All dollar and share amounts are in thousands, unless otherwise noted.
Overview



MTS Systems Corporation's testing and simulation hardware, software and service solutions help customers accelerate and improve their design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
Our high-performance sensors provide measurements of vibration, pressure, position, force and sound in a variety of applications.
As of September 29, 2018, we had 3,400 employees and revenue of $778,032 for fiscal year 2018.
Further globalization and expansion of many industries along with growth in emerging markets, such as China and India, provide a strong and vibrant market base from which we can grow revenue.
We are looking ahead to delivering distinctive business performance through our commitment to sustain the differentiated competitive advantage that comes from offering an innovative portfolio of Test & Simulation and Sensors solutions that create value for customers and are delivered with total customer satisfaction.
Acquisition



On November 21, 2018, we acquired E2M Technologies B.V. (E2M) for a cash purchase price of $79,772.
We funded the acquisition of E2M through borrowings on our Revolving Credit Facility.
See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the acquisition of E2M.
Financing



On November 21, 2018, we amended the Credit Agreement to increase the size of our Revolving Credit Facility from $120,000 to $150,000 and to extend the expiration date to July 5, 2022.
The size of the facility was increased to finance the purchase of E2M.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the amendment to the Credit Agreement.
Foreign Currency



Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.
The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.
Adoption of New Revenue Recognition Standard



In fiscal year 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), followed by related amendments (collectively, “the new revenue standard” or “ASC 606”).
See Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the impact of this adoption on our Consolidated Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Terms



The terms "MTS," "we," "us," "the Company" or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
33

Financial Results



Total Company 



Results of Operations



The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2019.
See Note 17 and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs and the E2M acquisition, respectively.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 4.6% primarily driven by growth in both the Test & Simulation and Sensors businesses, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Test & Simulation revenue increased $7,357 primarily driven by the acquisition of E2M completed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and growth in service and equipment revenue, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Sensors revenue increased $1,991 primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector from strength in mobile hydraulics and industrial markets, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 4.1%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 0.5% primarily driven by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense, continued focus on project execution in Test & Simulation, the unfavorable impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment of $445.
Gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points primarily due to increased compensation expense, continued focus on project execution in Test & Simulation and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment, partially offset by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Exclud



34

ing the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit increased 0.2% and the gross margin rate declined 1.5 percentage points.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 remained flat primarily due to increased compensation expense in Sensors, partially offset by lower marketing and commission expense in Test & Simulation and the favorable impact of currency translation.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 2.5% primarily due to acquisition-related expenses of $761, the addition of E2M expenses and increased professional fees, partially offset by lower compensation expense in both Test & Simulation and Sensors.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Research and development (R&D) expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 18.9% primarily due to the shift of internal resources to capital projects and lower focused R&D spending in Test & Simulation, partially offset by continued investment in new product development in Sensors.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and E2M expenses, R&D expense decreased 21.0%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 8.9% primarily due to lower operating expenses and higher gross profit, partially offset by acquisition-related expenses of $761 and the E2M acquisition inventory fair value adjustment of $445.
35

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest expense, net for the three months ended December 29, 2018 remained flat primarily due to a reduction in interest expense related to lower balances on the tranche B term loan, as well as current year gains on interest rate swaps, which was offset by an increase in interest expense on the revolving credit facility.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The increase in other income (expense), net for the three months ended December 29, 2018 was primarily driven by a relative decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions, an increase in rental income and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased primarily due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 in the prior year for the estimated impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act).
Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 would have been 17.8% and 17.9%, respectively.
Factors that increased the effective tax rate for the three months ended December 29, 2018 included impacts of the Tax Act, such as elimination of the domestic manufacturing deduction and the implementation of the global intangible low-taxed income provision.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended December 29, 2018 decreased due to an increase in the effective tax rate, partially offset by higher income from operations.
36

Segment Results



Test & Simulation Segment 



Results of Operations 



The following table compares results of operations for Test & Simulation, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation, the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2019.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our reportable segments.
See Note 17 and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs and the E2M acquisition, respectively.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 6.2% primarily driven by the acquisition of E2M in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and growth in service and equipment revenue, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and the E2M acquisition, revenue increased 4.5%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 1.0% primarily due to favorable leverage on higher revenue volume and the gross profit contribution from the E2M acquisition, partially offset by increased compensation expense, continued focus on project execution and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment.
Gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points primarily driven by increased compensation expense, continued focus on project execution and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment, partially offset by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 0.5% and gross margin rate declined 1.6 percentage points.
37

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 2.3% primarily due lower marketing expense and lower commissions.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and E2M expenses, selling and marketing expense decreased 2.2%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 8.8% primarily driven by acquisition-related expenses, the addition of E2M expenses and increased professional fees, partially offset by lower compensation expense.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



R&D expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 40.2% primarily due to the shift of internal resources to capital projects, lower focused R&D spending and lower compensation expense, partially offset by the addition of E2M expenses.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and E2M expenses, R&D expense decreased 44.7%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 30.7% primarily due to favorable leverage on higher revenue volume, lower R&D expenses and the contribution of E2M, partially offset by higher compensation expense, project execution inefficiencies, acquisition-related expenses and the E2M acquisition inventory adjustment.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the E2M acquisition, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 39.2%.
38

Sensors Segment



Results of Operations



The following table compares results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our reportable segments.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 2.6% primarily driven by continued growth in the Sensors position sector from strength in mobile hydraulics and industrial markets, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 3.9%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 0.1% primarily due to increased compensation expenses, lower gross profit contribution from product mix, and the unfavorable impact of currency translation, partially offset by increased revenue volume.
39

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 3.3% primarily driven by increased compensation from headcount additions to support growth, partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, selling and marketing expense increased 4.4%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



General and administrative expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 4.9% primarily driven by lower compensation expense.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, general and administrative expense decreased 4.5%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



R&D expense for the three months ended December 29, 2018 increased 5.1% primarily driven by continued investment in new product development.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, R&D expense increased 5.6%.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Income from operations for the three months ended December 29, 2018 declined 2.3% primarily due to increased compensation expense, partially offset by favorable leverage on higher revenue volume.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, income from operations decreased 0.7%.
40

Cash Flow Comparison



The following table summarizes our cash flows from total operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase in deferred income taxes, partially offset by a decrease in net income due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act in fiscal year 2018, as well as a decrease in cash used by prepaid expenses and payroll accruals.
These were partially offset by an increase in cash used by working capital associated with timing fluctuations from inventory purchases, accounts payable payments, billings and advanced payments from customers, accounts receivable payments received and unbilled accounts receivable accruals.
Investing Activities



The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the acquisition of E2M.
Financing Activities



The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility used to fund the acquisition of E2M and a decrease in cash used for long-term debt payments.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



We had cash and cash equivalents of $70,438 as of December 29, 2018.
Of this amount, $6,751 was located in North America, $26,235 in Europe and $37,452 in Asia.
The North American cash balance was primarily invested in bank deposits.
The cash balances in Europe and Asia were primarily invested in money market funds and bank deposits.
In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings.
Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity.
As of December 29, 2018, we held no short-term investments.
We plan to continue to repatriate certain amounts of our existing offshore cash and future earnings back to the U.S. 



As of December 29, 2018, our capital structure was comprised of $34,053 in short-term debt, $443,352 in long-term debt and $473,335 in shareholders' equity.
Long-term debt included $80,391 on our Revolving Credit Facility used to finance the acquisition of E2M.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets also included $11,357 of unamortized debt issuance costs as of December 29, 2018.
Total interest-bearing debt as of December 29, 2018 was $477,405.
We have a credit agreement with a consortium of financial institutions (the Credit Agreement) which provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a Revolving Credit Facility and a Term Facility.
The maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility is July 5, 2022 and the maturity date of the loans under the Term Facility is July 5, 2023, unless a term loan lender agrees to extend the maturity date pursuant to a loan modification agreement made in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement also requires mandatory prepayments on our Term Facility in certain circumstances, including the potential for an annual required prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults).
The Credit Agreement also 



41

contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.
These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock.
As of December 29, 2018, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item I of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our financing arrangements.
Shareholders' equity decreased by $4,597 during the three months ended December 29, 2018 primarily due to a cumulative effect of accounting change reduction to our opening retained earnings balance of $6,227 related to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Also contributing to the decrease was $5,366 dividends declared and $5,167 other comprehensive loss, partially offset by $10,501 net income and $1,980 stock-based compensation.
As of December 29, 2018, we believe our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and operations for the foreseeable future, including at least the next twelve months.
For further information, see "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" under Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
The following critical accounting policy has been updated since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2018.
Revenue Recognition Over Time



Revenue is recognized either over time as work progresses or at a point-in-time, dependent upon contract-specific terms and the pattern of transfer of control of the product or service to the customer.
Contracts with equipment revenue recognized over time use costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying the performance obligation.
Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the customer.
Equipment contract costs include materials, component parts, labor and overhead costs.
For contracts recognized over time, we estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and expected costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract.
These assumptions include labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the cost and availability of materials, and internal and subcontractor performance.
We recognize adjustments in estimated profit on contracts under the cumulative catch-up method.
Under this method, the impact of the adjustment on profit recorded to date is recognized in the period the adjustment is identified.
Revenue and profit in future periods of contract performance is recognized using the adjusted estimate.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the total loss in the period it is identified.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
42

Other Matters



Dividends



Our dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio that allows dividends to increase in conjunction with the long-term growth of earnings per share, while sustaining dividends through economic cycles.
Our dividend practice is to target, over time, a payout ratio of approximately 25% of net earnings per share.
Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
