PART II – OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings



We are or may be involved in various legal proceedings from time to time arising from the normal course of business.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors



A discussion of our risk factors can be found in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
The risks described below and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face.
The transfer of certain Test production operations in China to our new contract manufacturing partner may be subject to delays, increased costs or other unanticipated consequences.
On March 13, 2018, we announced workforce reductions and manufacturing facility closures in our Test segment corresponding to the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner.
These changes are designed to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in growth initiatives.
We can make no assurances that our current estimates of costs and timing of this restructuring action will be accurate or that additional costs will not be incurred as we continue the restructuring action.
For further information on restructuring actions, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
While we believe our China contract manufacturing partner to be qualified to manufacture our Test segment products, we may need to address short-term quality and delivery issues.
The final impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act could be materially different from our current estimates.
The Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
The tax benefit recorded for the nine months ended June 30, 2018 involves significant judgment and assumptions as to the impact of the Tax Act.
Our estimated impact of the new law is based on management's current knowledge and assumptions.
We expect to record any adjustments within one year of the enactment of the Tax Act in accordance with the guidance provided in Accounting Standards Update No.
2018-05, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SAB 118), and these adjustments could be material.
42

Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



The following table presents repurchases of our equity securities we made during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We purchase common stock from time to time to mitigate dilution related to new shares issued as equity for employee compensation such as stock options, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and employee stock purchase plan activity, as well as to return to shareholders capital not immediately required to fund ongoing operations.
Share Purchase Plan



Our Board of Directors approved, and on February 11, 2011 announced, a 2,000 share purchase authorization.
Authority over pricing and timing under the authorization has been delegated to management.
The share purchase authorization has no expiration date.
We made no share purchases during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As of June 30, 2018, there were 438 shares available for purchase under the existing authorization.
Capped Calls



In connection with the pricing of the TEUs sold in our public offering in fiscal year 2016, we purchased capped calls from third party banking institutions (Capped Calls) for $7,935.
On June 13, 2018, we amended the agreements with third party banking institutions for the outstanding Capped Calls (Capped Call Agreements) to modify the timing of settlement to be only upon expiration for all outstanding Capped Calls.
Per the Capped Call Agreements, the outstanding Capped Calls will automatically settle upon expiration on July 1, 2019.
As of June 30, 2018 the range of shares of our common stock to be received for the outstanding Capped Calls was a minimum of 0 shares to a maximum of 268 shares, subject to market conditions.
See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on our equity instruments.
43

Item 6.
Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



44
