Item 2.
Our MD&A is presented in nine sections:



•Overview



•Financial Results



•Cash Flow Comparison



•Liquidity and Capital Resources



•Off-balance Sheet Arrangements



•Critical Accounting Policies



•Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



•Other Matters



•Forward-looking Statements



Our MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
All dollar and share amounts are in thousands, unless otherwise noted.
Overview



MTS Systems Corporation is a leading global supplier of high performance test systems and sensors.
Our testing hardware and software solutions help customers accelerate and improve design, development and manufacturing processes and are used for determining the mechanical behavior of materials, products and structures.
Our high performance sensors provide controls for a variety of applications measuring acceleration, position, vibration, motion, pressure, force and sound.
As of September 30, 2017, we had 3,500 employees and revenue of $787,955 for fiscal year 2017.
Our desire is to be the innovation leader in creating test and measurement solutions and to provide total customer satisfaction.
We believe we can create value for our customers by helping to enhance the precision, improve the reliability and create superior safety for their products, while reducing the delivery time to market for their products.
Our competitive advantages include our proprietary technology and advanced application expertise, our expansive global footprint with long-term customer relationships, our large installed base of testing equipment and our expanded presence in the rapidly growing sensors market.
We are working toward our goals of sustained five to seven percent growth in annual revenue; three to four points of expanded earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA); and mid-teens for return on invested capital (ROIC).
We believe the growth in our end markets, combined with four primary opportunities we are currently pursuing, will support these goals: 



•Realize growth within the rapidly expanding Sensors market through an increase in our global market share and new product development;



•Expand Test services offerings into our large installed base of Test equipment;



•Capitalize on growth opportunities in the Test materials sector spurred by new manufacturing processes, focus on light-weight materials in aerospace and ground vehicle markets, and trends in energy exploration; and 



•Adapt our industry-leading ground vehicle testing applications to align with emerging trends in vehicle electrification, autonomous vehicles, and simulation.
We believe that our business model supports our growth objectives, provided that we continue to move aggressively to build our infrastructure, expand our offerings and execute on opportunities with our key customers around the world.
In order to accelerate our revenue growth over the next five years, investments in infrastructure, sales support and field service capacity and capability are essential.
See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the impact of the Tax Act.
Restructuring Initiative



During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, we initiated a series of Test workforce reductions and facility closures intended to increase organizational effectiveness, gain manufacturing efficiencies and provide cost savings that can be reinvested in our growth initiatives.
These actions include the transfer of certain production operations in China to a contract manufacturing partner in fiscal year 2018.
As a result, in the three and six months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded $321 and $414 of pre-tax severance and related expense, respectively, and $25 and $187 of pre-tax facility closure costs, respectively.
See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of restructuring initiatives.
Foreign Currency



Approximately 70% of our revenue has historically been derived from customers outside of the U.S. Our financial results are principally exposed to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Euro, the Japanese yen and the Chinese yuan.
The discussion below quantifies the impact of foreign currency translation on our financial results for the periods discussed.
Terms



The terms "MTS," "we," "us," the "Company," or "our" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, unless the context otherwise requires, refer to MTS Systems Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Financial Results



Total Company 



Results of Operations



The following table compares results of operations, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



27

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on restructuring and related costs.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we completed the acquisition of PCB Group, Inc. (PCB).
As a result of the PCB acquisition, we incurred certain non-recurring costs during fiscal year 2017 including acquisition integration costs and a fair value adjustment on acquired PCB inventory (PCB acquisition inventory adjustment).
Revenue



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 1.1% and 1.8%, respectively, primarily driven by lower Test revenue, partially offset by growth in our Sensors business and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog weighting which takes longer to convert to revenue.
Sensors revenue increased $11,958 and $19,764, respectively, primarily driven by continued momentum from new opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with continued growth in the Sensors position sector and broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 6.0% and 5.3%, respectively.
Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 declined 5.1% primarily driven by lower Test revenue volume, partially offset by higher Sensors revenue volume.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 8.9% and the gross margin rate declined 1.3 percentage points.
Gross profit for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 0.3% primarily driven by to the prior year impact of the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,724 and increased Sensors revenue volume, partially offset by reduced Test revenue volume.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, gross profit declined 7.4% and the gross margin rate declined 0.9 percentage points.
Selling and Marketing Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Selling and marketing expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was flat primarily due to lower commission expense in Test and prior year non-recurring China Code of Conduct investigation expenses, offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation and increased compensation expense in Test and Sensors.
Selling and marketing expense for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 2.5% primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of currency translation and increased compensation expense in Test and Sensors, partially offset by a decrease in commission expense in Test and prior year China investigation expenses.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, selling and marketing expense increased 0.4%.
General and Administrative Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



General and administrative expense for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 19.4% and 16.9%, respectively, primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $6,169 and $8,145, respectively, and prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $506 and $2,009, respectively, partially offset by an increase in professional fees, the unfavorable impact of currency translation, and higher bad debt expense in Test.
Research and Development Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Research and development (R&D) expense for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 6.9% and 2.6%, respectively, primarily due to prior year focused R&D spending to meet certain Test market needs and prior year China investigation expenses, partially offset by continued investment in product development, increased compensation expense in Sensors, and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and prior year China investigation expenses, R&D expense decreased 6.2% and 2.6%, respectively.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 31.7%.
Income from operations for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 28.8% primarily driven by prior year China investigation expenses of $8,735, leverage on volume growth in Sensors, prior year impact from the PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, and non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,378.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, prior year China investigation expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations decreased 28.7%.
Interest Expense, Net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest expense, net for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 decreased primarily due to reduced interest rates on the tranche B term loan facility as a result of the debt repricing completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017, as well as lower current year average debt outstanding.
Other Income (Expense), Net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The decrease in other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily driven by a relative decrease in gains on foreign currency transactions.
The increase in other income (expense), net for the six months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily driven by a relative decrease in losses on foreign currency transactions.
The effective tax rate for the six months ended March 31, 2018 decreased primarily due to certain discrete benefits of $25,378 for the estimated impact of the Tax Act.
The discrete benefits primarily related to $32,264 of estimated benefit from the 



30

remeasurement of our estimated net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by $6,886 of estimated expense associated with the mandatory deemed repatriation tax.
Excluding the impact of these discrete benefits, the effective tax rate for the six months ended March 31, 2018 would have been 17.5%, and the decrease in tax rate compared to the prior year was primarily due to the lower U.S. corporate tax rate under the Tax Act.
Net Income



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net income and diluted earnings per share for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased due to lower operating expenses, partially offset by a decrease in gross profit.
Net income and diluted earnings per share for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased due to a reduction in the effective tax rate and discrete benefits stemming from the Tax Act, as well as lower operating expenses and increased gross profit.
Segment Results



Test Segment 



Results of Operations 



The following table compares results of operations for Test, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
See Note 15 for additional information on our operating segments.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



31

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 decreased 11.0% and 10.4%, respectively, primarily driven by a decline in equipment volume due to lower trailing 12-month order volume resulting from weakness in the ground vehicles sector that continues to operate in a rapidly changing environment.
Current year Test revenue was also impacted by higher custom project backlog weighting which takes longer to convert to revenue.
This was partially offset by the favorable impact of currency translation and growth in service revenue.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue decreased 15.4% and 13.4%, respectively.
Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 declined 23.5% primarily due to lower revenue volume.
The decrease was partially offset by prior year costs to commence our lean initiative.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and current year restructuring costs, gross profit declined 25.3% and gross margin rate declined 4.2 percentage points.
Gross profit for the six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 19.9% primarily due to lower revenue volume.
32

Selling and Marketing Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Selling and marketing expense for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 8.0% and 2.0%, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in commission expense and prior year China investigation expenses, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and prior year China investigation expenses, selling and marketing expense decreased 9.3% and 3.8%, respectively.
General and Administrative Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



General and administrative expense for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 31.5% and 23.7%, respectively, primarily due to prior year China investigation expenses of $6,169 and $8,145, respectively.
The decrease was partially offset by higher bad debt expense and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Research and Development Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



R&D expense for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined 20.8% and 14.8%, respectively, primarily due to prior year focused R&D spending to meet certain Test market needs and prior year China investigation expenses.
Excluding the impact of currency translation and prior year China investigation expenses, R&D expense decreased 17.8% and 13.2%, respectively.
Income from Operations



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Income from operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 declined by 48.2% and 50.8%, respectively, primarily due to the decrease in gross profit driven by lower equipment order volume in the first half of fiscal year 2017 and the lower contribution from product mix.
The decrease was partially offset by prior year China investigation expenses of $6,759 and $8,735, respectively, lower commission expense, and prior year focused R&D spending to meet certain market needs.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year China investigation expenses and current year restructuring costs, income from operations decreased 73.7% and 64.6%, respectively.
33

Sensors Segment



Results of Operations



The following table compares results of operations for Sensors, separately identifying the estimated impact of currency translation and restructuring costs incurred in fiscal year 2018.
See Note 15 for additional information on our operating segments.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased 17.2% primarily driven by the favorable impact of currency translation, continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with continued growth in the Sensors position sector and broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 11.3%.
34

Revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 14.3% primarily driven by continued momentum from new revenue opportunities in the Sensors test sector, along with continued growth in the Sensors position sector and broad demand across the remaining Sensors sectors and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, revenue increased 10.0%.
Gross Profit



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased 19.0% primarily due to increased revenue volume and the favorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 12.5% and the gross margin rate increased 0.6 percentage points.
Gross profit for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 30.7% primarily due to increased revenue volume, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment of $7,724, the favorable impact of currency translation, and prior year restructuring costs.
Gross margin rate increased 6.3 percentage points primarily driven by the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, favorable leverage on increased revenue volume, and prior year restructuring costs, partially offset by the lower gross margin contribution from product mix.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year non-recurring PCB acquisition integration expenses, and prior year restructuring costs, gross profit increased 10.8% and the gross margin rate increased 0.4 percentage points.
Selling and Marketing Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Selling and marketing expense for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 10.2% and 8.3%, respectively, primarily driven by increased compensation expense, the unfavorable impact of currency translation and increased commission expense on higher revenue volume.
General and Administrative Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



General and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased 4.8% primarily driven by an increase in professional fees and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
The increase was partially offset by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $506.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 10.8%.
General and administrative expense for the six months ended March 31, 2018 decreased 6.5% primarily driven by prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,009 and prior year restructuring costs, partially offset by an increase in professional fees.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses and prior year restructuring costs, general and administrative expense increased 4.4%.
35

Research and Development Expense



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



R&D expense for the three and six months ended March 31, 2018 increased 12.2% and 14.3%, respectively, primarily driven by continued investment in product development, increased compensation expense, and the unfavorable impact of currency translation.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, R&D expense increased 9.1% and 11.9%, respectively.
Income from Operations 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Income from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $4,292 primarily due leverage on increased revenue volume, the favorable impact of currency translation and prior year PCB acquisition integrations expenses of $690.
The increase was partially offset by higher compensation and commission expense and increased professional fees.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 23.1%.
Income from operations for the six months ended March 31, 2018 increased $16,606 primarily driven by leverage on increased revenue volume, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses of $2,378, the favorable impact of currency translation and prior year restructuring costs.
The increase was partially offset by higher compensation and commission expense and increased professional fees.
Excluding the impact of currency translation, the prior year PCB acquisition inventory adjustment, prior year PCB acquisition integration expenses, and restructuring costs incurred in both fiscal years, income from operations increased 23.1%.
Cash Flow Comparison



The following table summarizes our cash flows from total operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Operating Activities



The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a decrease in working capital associated with timing fluctuations from inventory payments, advanced payments from customers, accounts receivable payments received, unbilled accounts receivable accruals and billings, and accounts payable payments.
Timing of payroll-related payments also contributed to the decrease in cash provided by operating activities.
This decrease in cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by a decrease in cash used by other assets and liabilities primarily driven by an increase in income taxes payable, as well as an increase in net income offset by a decrease in deferred income taxes due to the remeasurement of our estimated deferred tax liabilities as a result of the Tax Act.
36

Investing Activities



The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the timing of investments in property and equipment in the current year.
Financing Activities



The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the annual required excess cash flow payment and planned prepayments on the tranche B term loan made in fiscal year 2018.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



We had cash and cash equivalents of $84,378 as of March 31, 2018.
Of this amount, $14,177 was located in North America, $23,140 in Europe and $47,061 in Asia.
The North American balance was primarily invested in bank deposits.
The balances in Europe and Asia were primarily invested in money market funds and bank deposits.
In accordance with our investment policy, we place cash equivalent investments with issuers who have high-quality investment credit ratings.
Our investment objectives are to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and achieve the best available return consistent with our primary objectives of safety and liquidity.
As of March 31, 2018, we held no short-term investments.
We are currently evaluating repatriation of any additional funds held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including whether to utilize such funds for repayment of debt.
As of March 31, 2018, our capital structure was comprised of $57,269 in short-term debt, $366,660 in long-term debt and $472,230 in shareholders' equity.
The Consolidated Balance Sheets also included $14,196 of unamortized debt issuance costs as of March 31, 2018.
Total interest-bearing debt at March 31, 2018 was $423,929.
We have a credit agreement with a consortium of financial institutions (the Credit Agreement) which provides for senior secured credit facilities consisting of a Revolving Credit Facility and a Term Facility.
The maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility is July 5, 2021 and the maturity date of the loans under the Term Facility is July 5, 2023, unless a term loan lender agrees to extend the maturity date pursuant to a loan modification agreement made in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement also requires mandatory prepayments on our Term Facility in certain circumstances, including the potential for a required prepayment of a certain percentage of our excess cash flow for each fiscal year, beginning with fiscal year 2017.
Under the Credit Agreement, we are subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, among others, restrictions on our ability to incur debt, create liens, dispose of assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, and enter into any restrictive agreements and customary events of default (including payment defaults, covenant defaults, change of control defaults and bankruptcy defaults).
The Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants, including the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the Credit Agreement, as well as the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to consolidated interest expense.
These covenants restrict our ability to pay dividends and purchase outstanding shares of common stock.
As of March 31, 2018 and September 30, 2017, we were in compliance with these financial covenants.
See Note 8 for additional information on debt instruments.
Shareholders' equity increased by $43,453 during the six months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to $41,589 net income, $9,378 other comprehensive income and $3,178 stock-based compensation, partially offset by $10,680 dividends declared.
As of March 31, 2018, we believe our current capital resources will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and operations for the foreseeable future, including at least the next twelve months.
For further information, see "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" under Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Other Matters



Dividends



Our dividend policy is to maintain a payout ratio that allows dividends to increase in conjunction with the long-term growth of earnings per share, while sustaining dividends through economic cycles.
Our dividend practice is to target, over time, a payout ratio of approximately 25% of net earnings per share.
Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors.
