ITEM 1.
Financial Statements



NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION 



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(in thousands, except share and per share data)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
3



NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



(in thousands, except per share data)



(unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
4



NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(in thousands)



(unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
5



NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(in thousands)



(unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
6



NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(in thousands, except share data)



(unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Cash dividends declared per share of common stock were $0.25 for the three months ended September 30, 2019, and $0.75 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
7



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Cash dividends declared per share of common stock were $0.23 for the three months ended September 30, 2018, $0.69 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
8



NATIONAL INSTRUMENTS CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



Note 1 – Basis of presentation 



The accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2018, included in our annual report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring items) considered necessary to present fairly our financial position at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of our operations and comprehensive income for three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 and the statement of stockholder's equity for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Gain on Sale of Assets



During the three months ended September 30, 2019, we recognized a gain of $26.8 million from the sale of our 136,000 square foot office building and property located at 6504 Bridgepoint Parkway, Austin, Texas (the "Millennium Property").
At the time of sale, we did not occupy the building and had been leasing the building to third parties for several years.
The disposal gain is presented as "Gain on sale of assets" in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



Leases



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") established Topic 842, Leases, by issuing Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, which supersedes ASC 840, Leases, and requires lessees to recognize leases on-balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
Topic 842 was subsequently amended by ASU No.
2018-01, Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842; ASU No.
2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases; and ASU No.
2018-11, Targeted Improvements.
Topic 842, as amended (the "new lease standard"), establishes a right-of-use ("ROU") model that requires a lessee to recognize a ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than 12 months.
Leases will be classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and classification of expense recognition in the income statement.
We adopted the new lease standard on January 1, 2019 and used the effective date as our date of initial adoption.
Consequently, financial information will not be updated and the disclosures required under the new lease standard will not be provided for earlier periods.
Upon adoption, we recognized lease liabilities of approximately $52 million, with corresponding ROU assets of the same amount, based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments under current leasing standards for our existing operating leases.
Additionally, we also reclassified approximately $19 million from "Property, plant and equipment, net" to "Operating lease right-of-use assets" related to prepaid leasehold land.
The new lease standard provides a number of optional practical expedients in transition.
We elected the "package of practical expedients", which permits us not to reassess under the new lease standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
The new lease standard also provides practical expedients for an entity's ongoing accounting.
This means, for those leases that qualify, we will not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities, and this includes not recognizing ROU assets or lease liabilities for existing short-term leases of those assets in transition.
We also elected the practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components for our office leases.
9



The cumulative effects of the changes made to our consolidated January 1, 2019 balance sheet for the adoption of the new lease standard were as follows (in thousands):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities.
The ASU expands strategies that qualify for hedge accounting, changes how many hedging relationships are presented in the financial statements, and simplifies the application of hedge accounting in certain situations.
On January 1, 2019, we adopted the guidance in ASU 2017-12.
Adoption did not have a material impact on our financial statements.
In August 2018, the SEC issued Release No.
33-10532 that amends and clarifies certain financial reporting requirements.
The principal change to our financial reporting will be the inclusion of the annual disclosure requirement of changes in stockholders’ equity in Rule 3-04 of Regulation S-X to interim periods.
We adopted this new rule beginning with our financial reporting for the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
The ASU will replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
We will be required to use a forward-looking expected credit loss model for accounts receivables and other financial instruments.
This ASU requires instruments measured at amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
Entities are also required to record allowances for available-for-sale debt securities rather than reduce the carrying amount.
We do not plan to adopt the ASU earlier than our required effective date of January 1, 2020.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



As discussed above, we adopted the new lease standard as of January 1, 2019.
Additionally, in the first quarter of 2019, we granted performance-based restricted stock units to certain executives under our 2015 Equity Incentive Plan ("PRSUs").
The PRSU awards granted during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 include a market condition as defined by ASC 718.
The impact of the new equity awards on our accounting policies is described below.
There were no other significant changes in our accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
10



Stock-Based Compensation



Stock-based compensation costs are based on the fair value on the date of grant for all restricted stock units ("RSUs") and on the date of enrollment for the employee stock purchase plan.
We recognize compensation expense ratably over the requisite service period of the awards.
PRSUs are RSU awards that vest based on a market condition.
The market condition currently used is our stockholder return relative to the total stockholder return of the companies included in the Russell 2000 Index at the end of the three-year performance period.
The fair values of RSUs, with service-based vesting conditions, are estimated using their market price on the date of grant.
The fair values of rights under employee stock purchase plans are estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
The fair values of PRSUs are estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation.
Refer to Note 11 – Authorized shares of common and preferred stock and stock-based compensation plans for additional information on our equity-based compensation programs.
Leases



We determine whether an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Operating leases are included in operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities (current and non-current) on our consolidated balance sheet.
Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on their present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
As none of our leases provide an implicit rate we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available as of the commencement date.
The operating lease ROU assets also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives and initial direct costs incurred.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components.
For office leases, we account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
For certain leases, such as equipment and vehicles, we account for the lease and non-lease components separately.
Additionally, for certain equipment leases, we apply a portfolio approach to effectively account for the operating lease ROU assets and liabilities.
Refer to Note 8 - Leases for additional information on our leasing activities.
Earnings Per Share



Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each period.
Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding (if dilutive) during each period.
The number of common share equivalents, which includes RSUs, is computed using the treasury stock method.
The reconciliation of the denominators used to calculate basic EPS and diluted EPS for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Stock awards to acquire 1,611,000 shares and 36,600 shares for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 568,000 shares and 537,000 shares for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded in the computations of diluted EPS because the effect of including the stock awards would have been anti-dilutive.
The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis.
Our typical performance obligations include the following:



Performance ObligationWhen performance obligation is typically satisfiedWhen payment is typically dueHow standalone selling price is typically estimated



Product revenue   



Modular hardwareWhen customer obtains control of the product (point-in-time)Within 30-90 days of shipmentObservable in transactions without multiple performance obligations



Software licensesWhen software media is delivered to customer or made available for download electronically, and the applicable license period has begun (point-in-time)Within 30-90 days of the beginning of license period



Perpetual/Subscription licenses: Value relationships based on (i) the directly observable pricing of the license bundled with software maintenance and (ii) the directly observable pricing of software maintenance renewals, when they are sold on a standalone basis.
Enterprise-wide term licenses: Residual method 



Extended hardware warrantyRatably over the course of the support contract (over time)Within 30-90 days of the beginning of the contract periodObservable in renewal transactions



Other related support offeringsAs work is performed (over time) or training course is delivered (point-in-time)Within 30-90 days of deliveryObservable in transactions without multiple performance obligations



Software maintenance revenue   



Software maintenanceRatably over the course of the support contract (over time)Within 30-90 days of the beginning of the contract periodObservable in renewal transactions



Disaggregation of Revenues



We disaggregate revenue from contracts with customers based on the timing of transfer of goods or services to customers (point-in-time or over time) and geographic region based on the billing location of the customer.
The geographic regions that are tracked are the Americas (United States, Canada and Latin America), EMEIA (Europe, Middle East, India and Africa) and APAC (Australia, New Zealand, Southeast Asia, China, South Korea and Japan).
Total net sales based on the disaggregation criteria described above are as follows:



12



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Information about Contract Balances



Amounts collected in advance of services being provided are accounted for as deferred revenue.
Payment terms and conditions vary by contract type, although payment is typically due within 30 to 90 days of contract inception.
The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with simplified and predictable ways of purchasing our products and services, not to receive financing from our customers, such as invoicing at the beginning of a subscription term with a portion of the revenue recognized ratably over the contract period, or to provide customers with financing, such as multi-year on-premises licenses that are invoiced annually with revenue recognized upfront.
Amounts recognized as revenue in excess of amounts billed are recorded as unbilled receivables.
Unbilled receivables which are anticipated to be invoiced in the next twelve months are included in "accounts receivable, net" on the consolidated balance sheet.
Based on the nature of our contracts with customers, we do not typically recognize unbilled receivables related to revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, amounts recognized related to unbilled receivables were not material.
Unsatisfied Performance Obligations



Revenue expected to be recognized in any future period related to remaining performance obligations, excluding revenue pertaining to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less, and excluding contracts where revenue is recognized as invoiced, was approximately $57 million as of September 30, 2019.
Since we typically invoice customers at contract inception, this amount is included in our current and non-current deferred revenue balances.
As of September 30, 2019, we expect to recognize approximately 13% of the revenue related to these unsatisfied performance obligations during the remainder of 2019, 45% during 2020, and 42% thereafter.
We have determined that certain sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized.
Capitalized incremental costs related to initial contracts and renewals are amortized over the same period because the commissions paid on both the initial contract and renewals are commensurate with one another.
Total capitalized costs to obtain a contract were immaterial during the periods presented and are included in other long-term assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
•



We do not consider the time value of money for contracts with original durations of one year or less.
Our proportionate share of the income from equity-method investments was not material for the periods presented.
Note 4 – Fair value measurements 



We define fair value to be the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
We follow a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value.
Fair value measurement is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The three values of the fair value hierarchy are the following: 



Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 



Level 2 – Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly 



Level 3 – Inputs that are not based on observable market data 



15



Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We value our available-for-sale short-term investments based on pricing from third party pricing vendors, who may use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1 inputs) or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly (Level 2 inputs) in determining fair value.
The valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of our financial instruments having Level 2 inputs were derived from non-binding market consensus prices that are corroborated by observable market data, quoted market prices for similar instruments, or pricing models, such as discounted cash flow techniques.
Short-term investments available-for-sale consists of debt securities issued by states of the U.S. and political subdivisions of the U.S., corporate debt securities and debt securities issued by U.S. government organizations and agencies.
All of our short-term investments available-for-sale have contractual maturities of less than 60 months.
16



Derivatives include foreign currency forward contracts.
Our foreign currency forward contracts are valued using an income approach (Level 2) based on the spot rate less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount.
We consider counterparty credit risk in the valuation of our derivatives.
There were no transfers in or out of Level 1 or Level 2 during the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
As of September 30, 2019, our short-term investments did not include sovereign debt from any country other than the United States.
We did not have any items that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
The carrying value of net accounts receivable, accounts payable, and long-term debt contained in the consolidated balance sheets approximates fair value.
Note 5 – Derivative instruments and hedging activities 



We recognize all of our derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in our statement of financial position at fair value.
The accounting for changes in the fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and further, on the type of hedging relationship.
For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, we designate the hedging instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
We have operations in approximately 50 countries.
Sales outside of the Americas accounted for approximately 58% and 59% of our net sales during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and approximately 60% and 61% of our net sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We also purchase foreign currency forward contracts as hedges of forecasted expenses that are denominated in foreign currencies.
We designate foreign currency forward contracts as cash flow hedges of forecasted net sales or forecasted expenses.
In addition, we hedge our foreign currency denominated balance sheet exposures using foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments.
None of our derivative instruments contain a credit-risk-related contingent feature.
Cash flow hedges 



To help protect against the reduction in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates of forecasted foreign currency cash flows resulting from international sales over the next one to three years, we have instituted a foreign currency cash flow hedging program.
For forward contracts, when the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign currencies, the change in the present value of future foreign currency cash flows may be offset by the change in the fair value of the forward contracts designated as hedges.
We purchase foreign currency forward contracts for up to 100% of our forecasted exposures in selected currencies (primarily in Euro, Japanese yen, Hungarian forint, British pound, Malaysian ringgit, Korean won and Chinese yuan) and limit the duration of these contracts to 40 months or less.
17



For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same line item (net sales, operating expenses, or cost of sales) associated with the forecasted transaction and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings or expenses during the current period and are classified as a component of “net foreign exchange loss.” Hedge effectiveness of foreign currency forwards designated as cash flow hedges are measured by comparing the hedging instrument’s cumulative change in fair value from inception to maturity to the forecasted transaction’s terminal value.
We held forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges with the following notional amounts:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The contracts in the foregoing table had contractual maturities of 39 months or less and 24 months or less at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
At September 30, 2019, we expect to reclassify $11.6 million of gains on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to net sales during the next twelve months when the hedged international sales occur, $1.9 million of losses on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to cost of sales during the next twelve months when the hedged cost of sales are incurred and $1.3 million of losses on derivative instruments from accumulated OCI to operating expenses during the next twelve months when the hedged operating expenses occur.
Expected amounts are based on derivative valuations at September 30, 2019.
The gains and losses recognized in earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness were not material for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 and are included as a component of net income under the line item “net foreign exchange loss.”



18



Other Derivatives 



Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist primarily of foreign currency forward contracts that we use to hedge our foreign denominated net receivable or net payable positions to help protect against the change in value caused by a fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates.
We typically attempt to hedge up to 90% of our outstanding foreign denominated net receivables or net payables and typically limit the duration of these foreign currency forward contracts to approximately 90 days or less.
The gain or loss on the derivatives as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedge item attributable to the hedged risk is recognized in current earnings under the line item “net foreign exchange loss.” As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we held foreign currency forward contracts that were not designated as hedging instruments with a notional amount of $47 million and $71 million, respectively.
The following tables present the fair value of derivative instruments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



20



The following tables present the effect of derivative instruments on our Consolidated Statements of Income for three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



21



The following tables present the effect of derivative instruments on our Consolidated Statements of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



22



໿



Note 6 – Inventories, net 



Inventories, net consist of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 7 – Intangible assets, net 



Intangible assets at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Software development costs capitalized for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $2.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively, and related amortization expense was $7.1 million and $6.9 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, capitalized software development costs were $7.5 million and $13.8 million, respectively, and related amortization expense was $20.9 million and $19.9 million, respectively.
Capitalized software development costs for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 included costs related to stock-based compensation of $0.2 million and $0.1 million, respectively.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, capitalized software development costs included costs related to stock-based compensation of $0.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively.
The related amounts in the table above are net of fully amortized assets.
Amortization of capitalized software development costs is computed on an individual product basis for those products available for market and is recognized based on the product’s estimated economic life, generally three to six years.
Acquired technology and other intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives, which range from three to eight years.
Patents are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period of benefit, generally 10 to 17 years.
Total intangible assets amortization expenses were $9.2 million and $9.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $27.3 million and $26.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Goodwill



The carrying amount of goodwill as of September 30, 2019, was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



23



The excess purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
As we have one operating segment comprised of components with similar economic characteristics, we allocate goodwill to one reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing.
Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis, and between annual tests if indicators of potential impairment exist, using a fair-value-based approach based on the market capitalization of the reporting unit.
Our annual impairment test is performed in the fourth quarter of each year.
No impairment of goodwill was identified during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 or the twelve months ended December 31, 2018.
Note 8 – Leases



We have operating leases for corporate offices, automobiles, and certain equipment.
Our leases have remaining terms of 1 year to 95 years, some of which may include options to extend the leases for up to 9 years, and some of which may include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet.
We recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Amounts related to finance lease activities and income from leasing activities were not material for the periods presented.
The components of operating lease expense were as follows (unaudited):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Supplemental cash flow information related to operating leases were as follows (unaudited):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



24



Maturities of lease liabilities as of September 30, 2019 were as follows (unaudited):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2019, we have additional operating leases, that have not commenced during the period, which were not material.
We had a valuation allowance of $80 million at September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
A majority of the valuation allowance is related to the deferred tax assets of National Instruments Hungary Kft.
(“NI Hungary”).
We recorded a gross increase in unrecognized tax benefits of $0.7 million and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, as a result of the tax positions taken during these and prior periods.
We recorded a gross decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of $1.5 million and $3.6 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, as a result of closing open tax years.
As of September 30, 2019, we had approximately $0.6 million accrued for interest related to uncertain tax positions.
Our provision for income taxes reflected an effective tax rate of 23% and 11% for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and 18% and 13% for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In addition, our research and development activities in Hungary benefit from a tax law in Hungary that provides for an enhanced deduction for qualified research and development expenses.
The tax position of our Hungarian operations resulted in income tax benefits of $1.6 million and $2.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $4.2 million and $7.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
This tax holiday expires in 2027.
The income tax benefits of the tax holiday for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were approximately $1.8 million and $3.1 million, respectively.
The income tax benefits of the tax holiday for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were approximately $0.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively.
The impact of the tax holiday on a per share basis for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was a benefit of $0.01 and $0.02, respectively.
The impact of the tax holiday on a per share basis for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was a benefit of $0.01.
The accumulated OCI, net of tax, for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, consisted of the following: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



໿



Note 11 – Authorized shares of common and preferred stock and stock-based compensation plans



Authorized shares of common and preferred stock



Following approval by the Company’s Board of Directors and stockholders, on May 14, 2013, the Company’s certificate of incorporation was amended to increase the authorized shares of common stock by 180,000,000 shares to a total of 360,000,000 shares.
As a result of this amendment, the total number of shares which the Company is authorized to issue is 365,000,000 shares, consisting of (i) 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and (ii) 360,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share.
27



Restricted stock plan 



Our stockholders approved our 2005 Incentive Plan (the “2005 Plan”) in May 2005.
At the time of approval, 4,050,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance under this plan, as well as the number of shares which had been reserved but not issued under our 1994 Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”) which terminated in May 2005, and any shares that returned to the 1994 Plan as a result of termination of options or repurchase of shares issued under such plan.
The 2005 Plan, administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, provided for granting of incentive awards in the form of restricted stock and RSUs to directors, executive officers and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Awards vest over a three, five or ten-year period, beginning on the date of grant.
Vesting of ten-year awards may accelerate based on our previous year’s earnings and growth but ten-year awards cannot accelerate to vest over a period of less than five years.
The 2005 Plan terminated on May 11, 2010, except with respect to outstanding awards previously granted thereunder.
There were 3,362,304 shares of common stock that were reserved but not issued under the 2005 Plan as of May 11, 2010.
Our stockholders approved our 2010 Incentive Plan (the “2010 Plan”) on May 11, 2010.
At the time of approval, 3,000,000 shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance under this plan, as well as the 3,362,304 shares of common stock that were reserved but not issued under the 1994 Plan and the 2005 Plan as of May 11, 2010, and any shares that are returned to the 1994 Plan and the 2005 Plan as a result of the forfeiture or termination of options or RSUs or repurchase of shares issued under these plans.
The 2010 Plan, administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, provides for granting of incentive awards in the form of restricted stock and RSUs to employees, directors and consultants and employees and consultants of any subsidiary.
Awards vest over a three, five or ten-year period, beginning on the date of grant.
Vesting of ten-year awards may accelerate based on our previous year’s earnings and growth but ten-year awards cannot accelerate to vest over a period of less than five years.
The 2010 Plan terminated on May 12, 2015, except with respect to the outstanding awards previously granted thereunder.
The 2015 Plan, administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, provides for the granting of incentive awards in the form of restricted stock and RSUs to employees, directors and consultants and employees and consultants of any subsidiary and such awards may be subject to performance-based vesting conditions.
Awards vest over a three, four, five or ten-year period, beginning on the date of grant.
Vesting of ten-year awards may accelerate based on our previous year’s earnings and growth but ten-year awards cannot accelerate to vest over a period of less than five years.
There were 1,934,762 shares available for grant under the 2015 Plan at September 30, 2019.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we granted PRSUs to certain executives under our 2015 Plan.
Employee stock purchase plan 



Our employee stock purchase plan permits substantially all domestic employees and employees of designated subsidiaries to acquire our common stock at a purchase price of 85% of the lower of the market price at the beginning or the end of the purchase period.
The plan has quarterly purchase periods generally beginning on February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1 of each year.
On May 14, 2019, our stockholders approved an additional 3,000,000 shares for issuance under our employee stock purchase plan.
We issued 699,837 shares under this plan in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and the weighted average purchase price was $36.90 per share.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we did not make any changes in accounting principles or methods of estimates with respect to such plan.
Authorized Preferred Stock and Preferred Stock Purchase Rights Plan 



We have 5,000,000 authorized shares of preferred stock.
On January 21, 2004, our Board of Directors designated 750,000 of these shares as Series A Participating Preferred Stock in conjunction with the adoption of a Preferred Stock Rights Agreement which expired on May 10, 2014.
There were no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding at September 30, 2019.
We did not repurchase any shares during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
At September 30, 2019, there were 794,324 shares remaining available for repurchase under this program.
This repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
Note 12 – Segment and geographic information 



We operate as one operating segment.
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, who is our chief executive officer, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
Our sales to these regions share similar economic characteristics, similar product mix, similar customers, and similar distribution methods.
(See Note 2 - Revenue of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for total net sales by the major geographic areas in which we operate).
Based on the billing location of the customer, total sales outside the U.S. for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 were $208 million and $213 million, respectively, and $617 million and $635 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Total property and equipment, net, outside the U.S. was $126 million as of September 30, 2019 and $132 million at December 31, 2018, respectively.
Note 13 - Debt



On May 9, 2013, we entered into a Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Bank (the “Lender”).
The Loan Agreement provided for a $50 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a scheduled maturity date of May 9, 2018 (the “Original Maturity Date”).
On October 29, 2015, we entered into a First Amendment to Loan Agreement (the “Amendment”) with the Lender, which amended our Loan Agreement to among other things, (i) increase the unsecured revolving line of credit from $50 million to $125 million, (ii) extend the Original Maturity Date of the line of credit from May 9, 2018 to October 29, 2020 (the "Amended Maturity Date"), and (iii) provide us with an option to request increases to the line of credit of up to an additional $25 million in the aggregate, subject to consent of the Lender and terms and conditions to be mutually agreed between us and the Lender.
On April 27, 2018, we entered into a Second Amendment to Loan Agreement (the "Second Amendment") which amended the Loan Agreement, as amended by the Amendment to, among other things, (i) reduce the revolving line of credit from $125.0 million to $5.0 million, (ii) reduce the letter of credit sublimit under the line of credit from $10.0 million to $5.0 million and (iii) require us and our subsidiaries to comply with certain of the affirmative and negative covenants under the Loan Agreement only if loans are outstanding under the Loan Agreement or if we have not reimbursed any drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Loan Agreement within five business days following the request of the Lender.
The loans bear interest, at our option, at a base rate determined in accordance with the Loan Agreement, plus a spread of 0.0% to 0.50%, or a LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.13% to 2.00%, in each case with such spread determined based on a ratio of consolidated indebtedness to EBITDA, determined in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
Principal, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, is due and payable on the Amended Maturity Date.
We are also obligated to pay a quarterly commitment fee, payable in arrears, based on the available commitments at a rate of 0.18% to 0.30%, with such rate determined based on the ratio described above.
The Loan Agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants.
The Loan Agreement also requires us to maintain a ratio of consolidated indebtedness to EBITDA equal to or less than 3.25 to 1.00, and a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to interest expense greater than or equal to 3.00 to 1.00, in each case determined in accordance with the Loan Agreement.
As of September 30, 2019, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants in the Loan Agreement.
Upon an event of default, the lender may declare all or a portion of the outstanding obligations payable by us to be immediately due and payable and exercise other rights and remedies provided for under the Loan Agreement.
Under certain circumstances, a default interest rate will apply on all obligations during the existence of an event of default under the Loan Agreement at a per annum rate of interest equal to 2.00% above the otherwise applicable interest rate.
Proceeds of loans made under the Loan Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes.
We may prepay the loans under the Loan Agreement in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty.
As of September 30, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings under this line of credit.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we incurred no interest expense.
As of September 30, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the weighted-average interest rate on the revolving line of credit was 3.2% and 3.4%, respectively.
Note 14 – Commitments and contingencies 



We offer a one-year limited warranty on most hardware products which is included in the terms of sale of such products.
We also offer optional extended warranties on our hardware products for which the related revenue is recognized ratably over the warranty period.
Provision is made for estimated future warranty costs at the time of the sale for the estimated costs that may be incurred under the standard warranty.
The warranty reserve for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2019, we had non-cancelable purchase commitments with various suppliers of customized inventory and inventory components totaling approximately $6.4 million over the next twelve months.
30



Note 15 – Restructuring



Since the first quarter of 2017, we have been taking steps to optimize our processes, reduce job duplication, evaluate where we should shift and centralize activities, improve efficiencies, and rebalance our resources on higher return activities.
The timing and scope of our headcount reductions will vary.
໿



Note 16 – Litigation 



We are not currently a party to any material litigation.
No assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any investigation, litigation or dispute.
Note 17 – Subsequent events 



On October 23, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per common share, payable on December 2, 2019, to stockholders of record on November 11, 2019.
On October 23, 2019, our Board of Directors amended our stock repurchase program to increase the number of shares that may be repurchased by 3 million shares.
31
