Item 2.
26 



Overview  



Our Company 



We are the data authority for the hybrid cloud.
Digital transformation remains top of mind for executives.
In order to successfully digitally transform, data must become the lifeblood of an organization and be used as a business accelerator.
Data-driven digital transformations accelerate business outcomes.
Together with our partners, we empower global organizations to unleash the full potential of their data to enable new customer touchpoints, create innovative business opportunities and optimize operations.
NetApp delivers a Data Fabric built for the data-driven world.
Our Data Fabric simplifies and integrates data management across clouds and on-premises to accelerate digital transformation, enabling our customers to manage, secure and protect their data at the scale needed to accommodate the exponential data growth of the digital world.
It delivers integrated data management services and applications for data visibility and insights, data access and control, and data protection and security.
We focus on delivering an exceptional customer experience to become our customers’ preferred data partner.
NetApp’s unique approach to managing data holistically enables organizations to inspire innovation with the cloud, build clouds to accelerate new services, and modernize IT architecture with cloud-connected flash.
With NetApp products and solutions, customers can: 



•  



Continually fuel business growth by delivering data-rich customer experiences through new application deployments that easily use data and services regardless of where they reside or in what form.
•  



Accelerate digital transformation by developing a next-generation, cloud-architected infrastructure that manages data and services as one integrated resource supporting both public and private clouds.
•  



Free the resources necessary to fund transformation by deploying the industry’s leading flash storage solution, which is highly efficient and scales from the edge to the core to the cloud.
NetApp believes the hybrid cloud is fast becoming the dominant model for enterprise IT.
Whether an organization is targeting an all-cloud, hybrid cloud, or multi-cloud strategy, NetApp Cloud Data Services accelerate the time it takes to deploy or develop an application by making the data requirements seamless to the application layer.
Budget constraints and skill imbalances lead our customers to seek help in integrating, deploying and managing the solutions they need to stay competitive.
This drives demand for converged and hyper-converged infrastructure solutions.
FlexPod is the converged infrastructure of choice for many of the largest enterprises around the globe.
Customers can break free from the limits of first-generation HCI with NetApp HCI and attain guaranteed performance with high levels flexibility, scale, automation, and integration with the Data Fabric.
Flash plays a key role in customers’ digital transformation efforts as they seek to gain advantage through greater speed, responsiveness and value from key business applications - all while lowering total cost of ownership.
All-flash array technology is the de facto choice for primary application workloads as customers seek performance and economic benefits from replacing hard disk installations.
With a highly differentiated and broad portfolio of all-flash and hybrid array offerings, NetApp is well positioned to enable customers to accomplish this transition.
To provide visibility into our transition from older products to our newer, higher growth products and clarity into the dynamics of our product revenue, we group our products by “Strategic” and “Mature” solutions.
Strategic solutions include Clustered ONTAP, branded E-Series, SolidFire, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, enterprise software license agreements (ELAs) and other optional add-on software products.
Mature solutions include 7-mode ONTAP, add-on hardware and related operating system (OS) software and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) products.
Both our Mature and Strategic product lines include a mix of disk, hybrid and all flash storage media.
Additionally, we provide a variety of services including software maintenance, hardware maintenance and other services including professional services, global support solutions, and customer education and training to help customers most effectively manage their data.
Revenues generated by our Cloud Data Services offerings are included in software maintenance revenues.
We also declared cash dividends of $0.40 per share in that period, for which we paid an aggregate of $105 million.
Adoption of Revenue Accounting Standard 



As of the beginning of fiscal 2019, we adopted the new accounting standard Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) using the full retrospective method of adoption.
Accordingly, our prior period condensed consolidated financial statements and supplementary data, as presented herein, have been restated to conform to the new rules.
As illustrated in Note 6 – Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, the overall impact of adoption was not significant to prior periods.
However, application of the new rules to our ELAs resulted in approximately $90 million of product revenues for such arrangements in the first three months of fiscal 2019 that are incremental to the amount we would have recognized under the old standard.
Under ASC 606, we recognize the software license fee component of our ELAs up-front, whereas under the prior rules the software license fee was recognized over the term of the ELA.
There have been no material changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates as filed in such report, except with respect to revenue recognition as a result of the adoption of ASC 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Refer to Note 6 – Revenue of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details.
Results of Operations  



Our fiscal year is reported as a 52- or 53-week year that ends on the last Friday in April.
Fiscal years 2019 and 2018 are each 52-week years, with 13 weeks in each of their quarters.
Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months and periods refer to the Company’s fiscal years ended in April and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years.
The following table sets forth certain Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Percentages may not add due to rounding 



Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations  



Overview  



Net revenues for the first quarter fiscal 2019 were $1,474 million, reflecting an increase of $153 million, or 12%, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily reflecting higher product revenues.
Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by three percentage points, compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018, reflecting higher margins on product revenues.
Sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 totaled $690 million.
This represented 47% of net revenues, a decrease of five percentage points compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to higher net revenues in the current quarter.
29 



Net Revenues (in millions, except percentages):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The increase in net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018 was primarily due to an increase in product revenues of $148 million.
Product revenues as a percentage of net revenues increased four percentage points in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018.
The following customers, each of which is a distributor, accounted for 10% or more of net revenues:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Product Revenues (in millions, except percentages):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Product revenues are derived through the sale of our strategic and mature solutions, and consist of sales of configured systems, which are bundled hardware and software products, as well as add-on flash, disk and/or hybrid storage and related OS, OEM products, ELAs and add-on hardware and software.
Product revenues from strategic solutions represented 70% of product revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 69% in the corresponding period of the prior year.
Product revenues from mature solutions represented 30% of product revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 31% in the corresponding period of the prior year.
Total product revenues from strategic solutions totaled $612 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 reflecting a 23% increase from $498 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
This increase was primarily due to over $90 million of current quarter revenues from the software license component of several ELAs, which, under ASC 606, were recognized up-front.
There were no comparable ELAs in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
An increase in ASP, driven by the sales of our All-Flash FAS products, also contributed to the increase in revenues in the current quarter.
Total product revenue from mature solutions totaled $263 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, an increase of 15% from $229 million in in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, attributable to a 17% increase in add-on hardware, storage and related OS revenues and a 49% increase in OEM revenues.
Software Maintenance Revenues (in millions, except percentages):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Software maintenance revenues are associated with contracts which entitle customers to receive unspecified product upgrades and enhancements on a when-and-if-available basis, bug fixes and patch releases, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers.
The fluctuations in software maintenance revenues reflect fluctuations in the aggregate contract value of the installed base under software maintenance contracts, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the terms of the underlying contracts.
30 



Hardware Maintenance and Other Services Revenues (in millions, except percentages):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Hardware maintenance and other services revenues include hardware maintenance, professional services, and educational and training services revenues.
Hardware maintenance contract revenues were relatively flat year over year, at $303 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $298 million for the corresponding period of the prior year.
Professional services and educational and training services revenues were $67 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to $73 million for the corresponding period of the prior year.
Our geographic distribution of revenues as a percentage of net revenues was relatively consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Cost of Product Revenues (in millions, except percentages): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The changes in cost of product revenues consisted of the following (in percentage points of the total change):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cost of product revenues represented 45% of product revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 52% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Materials costs represented 87% of product costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 88% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Materials costs increased $16 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily due to higher unit volumes of All-Flash FAS products.
Average unit materials costs for Clustered ONTAP systems increased by 15% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year.
31 



The benefit of high margins on revenue recognized during the current quarter related to the software license components of several ELAs, and an increase in ASP for strategic systems, resulting in higher margins for strategic solutions in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Margins for mature products were relatively consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year.
Cost of Software Maintenance Revenues (in millions, except percentages):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Cost of software maintenance revenues was relatively flat in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018 and represented 3% of software maintenance revenues for both periods.
Costs represented 29% of hardware maintenance and other services revenues in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 31% in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Included in compensation costs are salaries, benefits, other compensation-related costs, stock-based compensation expense and employee incentive compensation plan costs.
Total compensation costs included in operating expenses increased by $5 million, or 1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year, primarily reflecting higher salaries as a result of merit increases, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense.
Average headcount was relatively consistent in both periods.
The changes in sales and marketing expenses consisted of the following:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The decrease in compensation costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year reflects a 2% decrease in average headcount and lower stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by higher average salaries, reflecting merit increases.
Commissions expense was relatively consistent in both quarters.
Changes in research and development expense consisted of the following:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The increase in compensation costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year was attributable to an 8% increase in average headcount and higher average salaries, reflecting merit increases, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense.
Development projects and outside services increased as a result of higher spending on materials and services associated with engineering activities to develop new products and enhance existing products.
Depreciation expense decreased primarily due to certain equipment becoming fully depreciated.
The increase in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year was primarily due higher spending levels on projects and outside services, and an increase in spending on IT projects.
Compensation costs were relatively consistent in both quarters.
Charges related to the plan consisted primarily of employee severance-related costs.
We expect to complete the May 2018 Plan by the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with no significant additional charges incurred.
See Note 12 – Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more details.
Other Income, Net (in millions, except percentages) 



The components of other income, net were as follows:  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



33 



Interest income increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, primarily due to a shift in our investment portfolio to higher-yielding investments.
Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes (in millions, except percentages):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was -4.0% compared to an effective tax rate of 9.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Our effective tax rate decreased for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding period in the prior year primarily due to the recognition of a $34 million discrete tax benefit for adjustments to certain intercompany transactions resulting from the retrospective application of the new revenue standard, and increased discrete benefits for stock-based compensation.
As of July 27, 2018, we have not fully completed the accounting for the tax impacts of the TCJA.
No significant adjustments to prior period estimates or positions have been made in the current period.
The provisional amounts recorded are based on reasonable estimates and our current interpretation and understanding of the TCJA.
The Company is also still evaluating the effects of the TCJA’s global minimum tax on intangible low-taxed income (“GMT”) and has not yet made an accounting policy election to either account for the tax under a period cost method or a deferred method.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we have accounted for the GMT under a period cost method as we continue to evaluate potential impacts.
In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, we will complete the accounting of the tax effects of the TCJA within the measurement period not to extend beyond one year from the enactment date.
As of July 27, 2018, we had $351 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits.
Liquidity, Capital Resources and Cash Requirements  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following is a summary of our cash flow activities: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



34 



Cash Flows  



As of July 27, 2018, our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $4.8 billion, a decrease of $0.6 billion from April 27, 2018.
The decrease was primarily due to $500 million paid for the repurchase of our common stock, $105 million used for the payment of dividends, $185 million used for the net repayment of commercial paper notes, and $64 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $326 million of cash provided by operating activities.
Working capital decreased by $0.4 billion to $3.0 billion as of July 27, 2018 compared to April 27, 2018 primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable, and decreases in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as discussed above, partially offset by decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses.
Cash Conversion Cycle 



The following table presents the components of our cash conversion cycle: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Days may not add due to rounding 



 (1)  



Days sales outstanding, referred to as DSO, calculates the average collection period of our receivables.
DSO is based on ending accounts receivable and net revenue for each period.
DSO is calculated by dividing accounts receivable by average net revenue per day for the current quarter (91 days for each of the quarters presented above).
DSO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was relatively consistent with the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, while it decreased compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 due to lower seasonal invoicing levels and more favorable shipping linearity.
(2)  



Days inventory outstanding, referred to as DIO, measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our products.
DIO is based on ending inventory and cost of revenues for each period.
DIO is calculated by dividing ending inventory by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter.
DIO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 was relatively consistent with the fourth quarter of 2018, while it decreased compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, primarily due to lower levels of purchased components on hand at the end of the current quarter.
(3)  



Days payables outstanding, referred to as DPO, calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment.
DPO is based on ending accounts payable and cost of revenues for each period.
DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of revenues per day for the current quarter.
DPO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased compared to the corresponding period of fiscal 2018, primarily as a result of improved vendor payables management and an extension of payment terms with our suppliers.
DPO for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased compared to the fourth quarter of 2018, primarily due to the timing of purchases from contract manufacturers.
(4)  



The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DIO less DPO.
Cash Flows from Operating Activities  



During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we generated cash from operating activities of $326 million, reflecting net income of $283 million, adjusted by non-cash depreciation and amortization of $49 million, and stock-based compensation of $40 million, compared to $250 million of cash generated from operating activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Changes in assets and liabilities in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 included the following: 



•  



Accounts receivable decreased $423 million, reflecting lower DSO.
•  



Accounts payable decreased $117 million, reflecting lower DPO.
•  



Accrued expenses decreased $221 million, primarily due to employee compensation payouts related to fiscal year 2018 commissions and incentive compensation plans 



We expect that cash provided by operating activities may materially fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, shipment linearity, accounts receivable collections performance, inventory and supply chain management, vendor payment initiatives, tax benefits or charges from stock-based compensation, and the timing and amount of compensation and other payments.
Cash Flows from Investing Activities  



During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we generated $248 million from maturities and sales of investments, net of purchases, and paid $64 million for capital expenditures, compared to $112 million and $36 million, respectively, during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
35 



Cash Flows from Financing Activities  



During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we used $500 million for the repurchase of seven million shares of our common stock, $105 million for the payment of dividends, and $185 million for the repayment of commercial paper notes, net, compared to $150 million used for the repurchase of four million shares of common stock, $54 million used for the payment of dividends, and $394 million generated from issuances of commercial paper notes, net, during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Based on past performance and our current business outlook, we believe that our sources of liquidity, including potential future issuances of debt, equity or other securities, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on our debt and other liquidity requirements associated with operations and meet our cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Liquidity  



Our principal sources of liquidity as of July 27, 2018 consisted of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, cash we expect to generate from operations, and our commercial paper program and related credit facility.
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments consisted of the following (in millions):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of July 27, 2018 and April 27, 2018, $4.3 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively, of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were held by various foreign subsidiaries and were generally based in U.S. dollar-denominated holdings, while $0.5 billion and $0.9 billion, respectively, were available in the U.S. at the end of each period.
Our principal liquidity requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support ongoing business activities, fund research and development, meet capital expenditure needs, invest in critical or complementary technologies, service interest and principal payments on our debt, fund our stock repurchase program, and pay dividends, as and if declared.
The principal objectives of our investment policy are the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity.
We believe our cash equivalents and short-term investments are liquid and accessible.
We are not aware of any significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or investments from the values reported as of July 27, 2018.
We routinely monitor our financial exposure to both sovereign and non-sovereign borrowers and counterparties.
We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed.
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations.
We also have an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
36 



Senior Notes  



The following table summarizes the principal amount of our Senior Notes as of July 27, 2018 (in millions):  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually.
For further information on the underlying terms, see Note 9 – Financing Arrangements of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facility 



We have a commercial paper program (the Program), under which we may issue unsecured commercial paper notes.
Amounts available under the Program may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed, with the aggregate face or principal amount of the notes outstanding under the Program at any time not to exceed $1.0 billion.
The maturities of the notes can vary, but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue.
The notes are sold under customary terms in the commercial paper market and may be issued at a discount from par or, alternatively, may be sold at par and bear interest at rates dictated by market conditions at the time of their issuance.
The proceeds from the issuance of the notes are used for general corporate purposes.
As of July 27, 2018, we had commercial paper notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $200 million, a weighted-average interest rate of 2.28% and maturities ranging from 14 days to 31 days.
In connection with the Program, we have a senior unsecured credit agreement that expires on December 10, 2021.
The credit agreement provides a $1.0 billion revolving unsecured credit facility that serves as a back-up for the Program.
Proceeds from the facility may also be used for general corporate purposes, providing another potential source of liquidity to the extent that the credit facility exceeds the outstanding debt issued under the Program.
The credit agreement also includes options that allow us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $300 million and to extend its maturity date for two additional one-year periods, both subject to certain conditions.
As of July 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all associated covenants in this agreement.
No amounts were drawn against this facility during any of the periods presented.
Capital Expenditure Requirements  



We expect to fund our capital expenditures, including our commitments related to facilities, equipment, operating leases and internal-use software development projects over the next few years through existing cash, cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from operations.
We anticipate capital expenditures for the remainder of fiscal 2019 to be between $100 million and $150 million.
Dividends and Stock Repurchase Program  



On August 15, 2018, we declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock, payable on October 24, 2018 to holders of record as of the close of business on October 5, 2018.
Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $13.6 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase program.
Under this program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, through accelerated share repurchase programs, pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan or in such other manner as deemed appropriate by our management.
The stock repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
As of July 27, 2018, the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $3.5 billion.
Contractual Obligations  



Operating Lease Commitments  



As of July 27, 2018, future annual minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year totaled $184 million.
37 



Purchase Orders and Other Commitments  



In the ordinary course of business, we make commitments to our third-party contract manufacturers to manage manufacturer lead times and meet product forecasts, and to other parties to purchase various key components used in the manufacture of our products.
A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments.
As of July 27, 2018, we had $382 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments for inventory.
In addition to inventory commitments with contract manufacturers and component suppliers, we have open purchase orders and construction related obligations associated with our ordinary course of business for which we have not received goods or services.
As of July 27, 2018, we had $5 million in construction related obligations and $195 million in other purchase obligations.
Financing Guarantees 



While most of our arrangements for sales include short-term payment terms, from time to time we provide long-term financing to creditworthy customers.
We have generally sold receivables financed through these arrangements on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions within 10 days of the contracts’ dates of execution, and we classify the proceeds from these sales as cash flows from operating activities in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
We account for the sales of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in the accounting standards on transfers of financial assets, as we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables.
Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize product revenues for these arrangements, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions, upon product acceptance.
We sold $30 million and $31 million of receivables during the first quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
In addition, we enter into arrangements with leasing companies for the sale of our hardware systems products.
These leasing companies, in turn, lease our products to end-users.
Some of the leasing arrangements described above have been financed on a recourse basis through third-party financing institutions.
Under the terms of recourse leases, which are generally three years or less, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing companies in the event of end-user customer default.
These arrangements are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.
Where we provide a guarantee for recourse leases, we recognize revenues in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, as updated to reflect the adoption of ASC 606.
In connection with certain recourse financing arrangements, we receive advance payments associated with undelivered elements that are subject to customer refund rights.
As of July 27, 2018 and April 28, 2017, the aggregate amount by which such contingencies exceeded the associated liabilities was not significant.
We have entered into service contracts with certain of our end-user customers that are supported by third-party financing arrangements.
If a service contract is terminated as a result of our non-performance under the contract or our failure to comply with the terms of the financing arrangement, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to acquire certain assets related to the service contract or to pay the aggregate unpaid payments under such arrangements.
As of July 27, 2018, we have not been required to make any payments under these arrangements, and we believe the likelihood of having to acquire a material amount of assets or make payments under these arrangements is remote.
Indemnification Agreements 



We enter into indemnification agreements with third parties in the ordinary course of business.
These indemnification obligations are considered off-balance sheet arrangements under accounting guidance.
See further details on such matters in Note 16 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
38
