 Item 1.
Financial Statements.
NVE CORPORATION



 BALANCE SHEETS



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 *The March 31, 2018 Balance Sheet is derived from the audited financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
See accompanying notes.
NVE CORPORATION



 STATEMENTS OF INCOME



 (Unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



 (Unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 See accompanying notes.
NVE CORPORATION



 STATEMENTS OF INCOME



 (Unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



 (Unaudited)



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 See accompanying notes.
NVE CORPORATION



 STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



 (Unaudited) 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 See accompanying notes.
NVE CORPORATION



 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



 (Unaudited) 



 NOTE 1.
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



 We develop and sell devices that use spintronics, a nanotechnology that relies on electron spin rather than electron charge to acquire, store, and transmit information.
NOTE 2.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES



 Basis of Presentation



 The accompanying unaudited financial statements of NVE Corporation are prepared consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations.
In the opinion of management, these financial statements reflect all adjustments, consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements.
We recognize any such commissions as selling, general, and administrative expenses.
We recognize contract research and development revenue over a period of time as the performance obligation is satisfied over a period of time rather than a point in time.
Contracts have specifications unique to each customer and do not create an asset with an alternate use, and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
We recognize revenue over a period of time using costs incurred as the measurement of progress towards completion.
A contract asset is recognized when we have a right to consideration from the transfer of goods or services to a customer but have not completed our performance obligation.
A contract liability is recognized when we have been paid by a customer but have not yet satisfied the performance obligation by transferring goods or services.
We had no material contract assets or contract liabilities as of  September 30, 2018 or  March 31, 2018.
Unsatisfied performance obligations represent contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
As permitted under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, we are using the practical expedient not to disclose the value of these unsatisfied performance obligations.
NOTE 3.
RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS



 Recently Adopted Accounting Standards



 In  August 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2018-13, Fair Value Measurement.
ASU 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements for fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain disclosures.
The amendments in ASU 2018-13 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2021 for us.
Early adoption is permitted for the removed disclosures and delayed adoption is permitted until fiscal 2021 for the new disclosures.
We adopted ASU 2018-13 early, effective the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
The removed and modified disclosures were adopted on a retrospective basis and the new disclosures on a prospective basis.
The adoption did not have a significant effect on our financial statements.
In  February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
The guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us.
Early adoption is permitted, and we adopted ASU 2018-02 in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
The adoption resulted in a $60,365 reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive loss to retained earnings due to the change in the federal corporate tax rate.
In  August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which made eight targeted changes to how cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows.
We adopted ASU 2016-15 retrospectively in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial statements.
In  January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-01, Financial Instruments—Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
The amendment changed the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
We adopted ASU 2016-01 retrospectively in the quarter ended  June 30, 2018.
The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial statements.
In  May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, which superseded the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification 605, Revenue Recognition.
ASU 2014-09 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
We adopted the guidance using the modified retrospective method to contracts that were not complete as of  April 1, 2018.
The adoption did not have significant impact on our financial statements.
New Accounting Standard Not Yet Adopted



 In  February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Lease Accounting.
ASU 2016-02 requires recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet of lessees.
In  July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases), which provides narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard.
The guidance will be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which will be fiscal 2020 for us.
In  July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-11, Leases Topic (842): Targeted Improvements.
This ASU provides companies an option to apply the transition provisions of the new lease standard at its adoption date instead of at the earliest comparative period presented in its financial statements.
We expect to adopt the new lease guidance using the newly-approved transition method.
We expect to recognize a liability and corresponding asset associated with in-scope operating and finance leases but are still in the process of determining those amounts and the processes required to account for leasing activity on an ongoing basis.
NOTE 4.
NET INCOME PER SHARE



 Net income per basic share is computed based on the weighted-average number of common shares issued and outstanding during each period.
Net income per diluted share amounts assume exercise of all stock options.
The following tables show the components of diluted shares:



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 NOTE 5.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS



 Our corporate bonds and money market funds are classified as available-for-sale securities and carried at estimated fair value.
Corporate bonds with remaining maturities less than one year are classified as short-term, and those with remaining maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term.
We consider all highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased, including money market funds, to be cash equivalents.
Gains and losses on marketable security transactions are reported on the specific-identification method.
The fair value of our available-for-sale securities as of  September 30, 2018 by maturity were as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



 Total available-for-sale securities represented approximately 89% of our total assets.
Marketable securities as of  September 30, 2018 had remaining maturities between one and 55 months.
Generally accepted accounting principles establish a framework for measuring fair value, provide a definition of fair value, and prescribe required disclosures about fair-value measurements.
Generally accepted accounting principles define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability.
Fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined using assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability.
Generally accepted accounting principles utilize a valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements.
The categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
The categories within the valuation hierarchy are described as follows:



 Level 1 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 – Financial instruments with quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are determined using either prices for similar instruments or inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable, such as interest rates.
Level 3 – Inputs to the fair value measurement are unobservable inputs or valuation techniques.
None of the securities were impaired at acquisition, and subsequent declines in fair value are not attributed to declines in credit quality.
NOTE 6.
INVENTORIES



 Inventories are shown in the following table: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  



NOTE 7.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION



 Stock-based compensation expense was $93,360 for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, and $40,920 for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2018.
We calculate the share-based compensation expense using the Black-Scholes standard option-pricing model.
The increase in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 was due to an increase in the model valuation for the same number of options to purchase shares.
NOTE 8.
The Act “To provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018” (the “Tax Reform Act”) was enacted  December 22, 2017.
NOTE 9.
We did not repurchase any of our Common Stock under the program during the quarter ended  September 30, 2018.
The remaining authorization was $4,540,806 as of  September 30, 2018.
The Repurchase Program  may be modified or discontinued at any time without notice.
NOTE 10.
