PART II Other Information 



Item 1: Legal Proceedings 



We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.
Item 1A: Risk Factors 



See our 2017 Form 10-K (Item 7A).
As of August 9, 2018, there have been no material changes in this information except for an update based on US tariffs imposed on PCTEL antenna and antenna components manufactured in China: 



Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.
There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including: (i) fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, and in particular the impact of a re-valuation of the Chinese Yuan; (ii) impact of tariffs or trade wars among the countries in which we do business; (iii) difficulties in repatriation of earnings; (iv) disruption to our supply chain, including our ability to import materials and export products; (v) nationalist sentiment creating advantages for our competitors in their home countries; (vi) impact of labor unrest; (vii) unexpected legal or regulatory changes, particularly changes to environmental, labor or manufacturing regulations; (vii) lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property rights; (viii) difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel and managing international operations;(ix) less developed infrastructure; and (x) other unfavorable political or economic factors which could include nationalization of the wireless communications or related industries.
Effective July 6, 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative (“USTR”) imposed duties of 25% on certain Chinese imports containing industrially significant technologies, including certain PCTEL antenna and antenna components, and there are additional tariffs under review.
Furthermore, political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes and protectionist measures may have a negative effect on customer confidence and spending.
The Company will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit.
The impact of the tariffs on the Company’s future revenue and profitability is uncertain.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



None.
Item 3: Defaults Upon Senior Securities 



None.
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures 



Not applicable.
Item 5: Other Information 



None.
36 



Item 6: Exhibits 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



37
