PART II - OTHER INFORMATION 



Item 1: Legal Proceedings 



We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.
Item 1A: Risk Factors 



See our 2018 Form 10-K (Item 7A).
As of November 12, 2019, there have been no material changes in this information except for an update based on conducting business in foreign countries: 



Conducting business in foreign countries involves additional financial, operating, and regulatory risks.
There are a number of risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including: (i) fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, and in particular the impact of a re-valuation of the Chinese Yuan; (ii) impact of tariffs or trade wars among the countries in which we do business; (iii) difficulties in repatriation of earnings; (iv) disruption to our supply chain, including our ability to import materials and export products; (v) nationalist sentiment creating advantages for our competitors in their home countries; (vi) impact of labor unrest; (vii) unexpected legal or regulatory changes, particularly changes to environmental, labor or manufacturing regulations; (vii) lack of sufficient protection for intellectual property rights; (viii) difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel and managing international operations; (ix) less developed infrastructure; and (x) other unfavorable political or economic factors which could include nationalization of the wireless communications or related industries.
All our Tianjin, China employees are represented by a labor union, and our employees in Beijing, China are represented by a separate labor union pursuant to the requirements of China’s National Labor Law.
These two labor unions do not have collective bargaining rights.
We expect the transition to be substantially completed by the end of our 2020 fiscal year (the “Transition Period”) and we expect to recognize cumulative pre-tax charges of approximately $1.0 million consisting of severance and other transition costs.
It is expected that a total of approximately 140 positions, or approximately 35% of the Company’s entire full-time global workforce, will be eliminated over the course of the Transition Period at an aggregate cost of approximately $0.9 million.
These separation costs will be paid in cash.
Other non-cash costs associated with the transition to contract manufacturers include fixed asset dispositions estimated to be $0.1 million.
We recognized restructuring expenses of $0.3 million during the third quarter ended September 30, 2019.
We anticipate that the remaining charges will be recognized as restructuring expenses during the fourth quarter of 2019 and the first half of 2020.
We expect to make cash payments for employee separation costs during the fourth quarter of 2019 and the first half of 2020.
We expect to retain the lease on our Tianjin facility for manufacturing of lower-volume, highly-customized antenna products and for administration of remaining China operations with a workforce of approximately 65 personnel until the end of the facility’s current lease term in October 2020.
Thereafter we intend to continue such manufacturing activities to the extent that we are successful in negotiating an extension of the lease term at a reasonable cost.
Beginning in the third quarter 2018, the Office of the United States Trade Representative imposed duties on certain Chinese imports containing industrially significant technologies, including certain PCTEL antenna and antenna components.
Additional tariffs were instituted in September 2019.
Furthermore, political uncertainty surrounding international trade disputes and protectionist measures may have a negative effect on customer confidence and spending.
We will continue to monitor and adjust prices as necessary and as market conditions permit but we may not be able to adjust our prices enough to cover all of our tariff costs.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



None.
34 



Item 3: Defaults Upon Senior Securities 



None.
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures 



Not applicable.
Item 5: Other Information 



None.
Item 6: Exhibits 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



35
