PART II - OTHER INFORMATION



ITEM 1A.
“Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million, senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”).
Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million.
See Item 5.
“Other Information” for additional information.
Any failure to meet our debt obligations would damage our business.
If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above.
We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our revolving credit facility.
We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our Credit Agreement.
Any failure to comply with those covenants could cause amounts borrowed to become immediately due and payable and/or prevent us from borrowing under the Credit Agreement.
We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations.
In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants under the Credit Agreement at the time we wish to borrow funds, we will be unable to borrow funds.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Common stock repurchased in the three months ended September 30, 2019 was:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Shares withheld to cover the option exercise price and tax withholding obligations under the net settlement provisions of our stock compensation awards have been included in these amounts.
(2) See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 2.
ITEM 5.
OTHER INFORMATION



On November 6, 2019, we entered into a five-year $100 million senior secured revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with PNC Bank, National Association (“PNC”).
Subject to specific circumstances, the Credit Agreement allows us to increase the aggregate commitment up to $200 million.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, and events of default.
Principal covenants include a maximum net consolidated leverage ratio of 3.5 (with a step-up in the event of certain acquisitions) and a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.5.
The interest rates applicable to revolving loans under the Credit Agreement are, at our option, either:



•the London Interbank Offered Rates (“LIBOR”) Rate plus an interest margin based on our net consolidated leverage ratio; or



•a base rate (which is the highest of (1) PNC’s prime rate, (2) the Federal Funds open rate in effect on such day plus 0.5%, and (3) the daily LIBOR Rate plus 1%) plus an interest margin based on our net consolidated leverage ratio.
We are obligated to pay an unused commitment fee during the term of the Credit Agreement that varies between 0.15% and 0.225% depending on our net consolidated leverage ratio.
The credit facility includes a provision for the replacement of the LIBOR rate in the event that such rate is no longer available.
The replacement rate will be determined by PNC in consultation with us.
The revolving credit facility may be prepaid before maturity in whole or in part at our option without penalty or premium.
We may at any time reduce or terminate the commitments under the credit facility.
The description of the Credit Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



+ Indicates that the exhibit is being furnished with this report and is not filed as a part of it.
26
