PART II -- OTHER INFORMATION



LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



We are presently engaged in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business.
For additional information about our material legal proceedings, please see Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies, of the accompanying notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors included in the Form 10-K. 



53

UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS



Share Repurchase Programs



The following table presents a month-to-month summary of the stock purchase activity in the third quarter of fiscal year 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



1



On November 28, 2018, our Board of Directors approved a 1 million shares repurchase program expanding our capacity to repurchase shares to approximately 1.7 million shares.
We may repurchase shares from time to time in open market transactions or through privately negotiated transactions.
There is no expiration date associated with the repurchase activity.
3



These shares reflect the available shares authorized for repurchase under the expanded program approved by the Board on November 28, 2018.
4



Includes 7,527 shares that were tendered to us in satisfaction of employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted



5



Represents only shares that were tendered to us in satisfaction of employee tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted



54

OTHER INFORMATION



Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers



On November 2, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved changes to the severance arrangements previously entered into between the Company and its executive officers (“Executive Officers”), including the following named executive officers, Joe Burton, the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Pam Strayer, the Company’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mary Huser, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Compliance Officer, Jeff Loebbaka, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Global Sales, and Shantanu Sarkar, the Company’s Executive Vice President, Headset Business Unit.
Under the terms approved by the Board of Directors, immediately prior to a Change of Control (as defined in the existing Change of Control agreements currently in effect) all outstanding unvested shares under performance stock unit awards (“PSUs”) will vest at the greater of target performance or actual performance.
The Company intends to enter into amended and restated agreements or amendments to existing agreements with each of the Executive Officers reflecting the approved changes.
55

EXHIBITS 



We have filed the following documents as Exhibits to this Form 10-Q:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



56

Plantronics, Inc.



FORM 10-Q



CROSS REFERENCE TABLE



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



57
