ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
4

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
5

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
6

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
7

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



1.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION:



The condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Power Integrations, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
GAAP”).
The results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire year.
The condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Power Integrations, Inc. consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto for the year ended December 31, 2017, included in its Form 10-K filed on February 14, 2018, with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
2.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS:



Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates



No material changes have been made to the Company's significant accounting policies disclosed in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on February 14, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements



In February 2016, the FASB amended the existing accounting standards for leases, ASU 2016-02, Leases.
The accounting by lessors will remain largely unchanged from that applied under previous U.S. GAAP.
The Company is required to adopt the amendments in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The amendments require a modified retrospective transition approach to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements.
The update provides an optional transition method that allows entities to apply the standards prospectively, versus recasting the prior periods presented.
If elected, an entity would recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to opening retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of these amendments and the transition alternatives on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
3.
COMPONENTS OF THE COMPANY’S CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS:



Accounts Receivable



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Inventories



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 8

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Intangible Assets



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The estimated future amortization expense related to finite-lived intangible assets at September 30, 2018, is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_______________



(1)The total above excludes $4.7 million of in-process research and development that will be amortized, upon completion of development, over the estimated useful life of the technology.
9

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss



Changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]_______________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]______________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



4.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS:



The FASB established a three-tier value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows: (Level 1) observable inputs such as quoted prices for identical assets in active markets; (Level 2) inputs other than the quoted prices in active markets that are observable either directly or indirectly; and (Level 3) unobservable inputs in which there is little or no market data, which requires the Company to develop its own assumptions.
This hierarchy requires the Company to use observable market data, when available, and to minimize the use of unobservable inputs when determining fair value.
The Company's cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
10

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



The fair-value hierarchy of the Company's cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company did not transfer any investments between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair-value hierarchy in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, and the twelve months ended December 31, 2017.
5.
MARKETABLE SECURITIES:



Amortized cost and estimated fair market value of marketable securities classified as available-for-sale (excluding cash equivalents) at September 30, 2018, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 11

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



Amortized cost and estimated fair market value of marketable securities classified as available-for-sale (excluding cash equivalents) at December 31, 2017, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, the Company evaluated the nature of the investments with a loss position, which were primarily high-quality corporate securities, and determined the unrealized losses were not other-than-temporary.
6.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION:



The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expense recognized in accordance with ASC 718-10 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and September 30, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2018, was approximately $4.4 million (comprising approximately $4.2 million related to restricted stock unit (RSU) awards, a reduction to expense of $0.1 million related to performance-based (PSU) awards and long-term performance-based (PRSU) awards and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $16.1 million (comprising approximately $12.4 million related to RSUs, $2.6 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $1.1 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
Stock-based compensation expense in the three months ended September 30, 2017, was approximately $6.5 million (comprising approximately $4.0 million related to RSUs, $2.2 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.3 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
In the nine months ended September 30, 2017, stock-based compensation expense was approximately $17.8 million (comprising approximately $11.2 million related to RSUs, $5.7 million related to PSUs and PRSUs and $0.9 million related to the Company’s employee stock purchase plan).
12

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



Stock Options



A summary of stock options outstanding as of September 30, 2018, and activity during the nine months then ended, is presented below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



PSU Awards



Under the performance-based awards program, the Company grants awards in the performance year in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The number of shares that are released at the end of the performance year can range from zero to 200% of the target number depending on the Company’s performance.
The performance metrics of this program are annual targets consisting of a combination of net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals.
As the net revenue, non-GAAP operating income and strategic goals are considered performance conditions, expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recognized over the service period based on an assessment of the achievement of the performance targets.
The fair value of these PSUs is determined using the fair value of the Company’s common stock on the date of the grant, reduced by the discounted present value of dividends expected to be declared before the awards vest.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
In January 2018, it was determined that approximately 79,000 shares of the PSUs granted in 2017, vested in aggregate and were released to the Company’s employees and executives in the first quarter of 2018.
A summary of PSUs outstanding as of September 30, 2018, and activity during the nine months then ended, is presented below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



PRSU Awards



  The Company's PRSU program provides for the issuance of PRSUs which will vest based on the Company's performance measured against the PRSU program's established revenue targets.
PRSUs are granted in an amount equal to twice the target number of shares to be issued if the maximum performance metrics are met.
The actual number of shares the recipient receives is determined at the end of a three-year performance period based on results achieved versus the Company's performance goals, and may range from zero to 200% of the target number.
The performance goals for PRSUs granted in fiscal 2016, 2017 and 2018 were based on the Company’s annual revenue growth over the respective three-year performance period.
Expense associated with these awards, net of estimated forfeitures, is recorded throughout the year depending on the number of shares expected to vest based on progress toward the performance target.
If the performance conditions are not achieved, no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation is reversed.
13

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



In January 2018, it was determined that approximately 38,000 shares of the PRSUs granted in 2015, vested in aggregate and were released to the Company’s executives in the first quarter of 2018.
A summary of PRSUs outstanding as of September 30, 2018, and activity during the nine months then ended, is presented below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



RSU Awards



A summary of RSUs outstanding as of September 30, 2018, and activity during the nine months then ended, is presented below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7.
SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS AND GEOGRAPHIC NET REVENUES:



Segment Reporting



The Company is organized and operates as one reportable segment, the design, development, manufacture and marketing of integrated circuits and related components for use primarily in the high-voltage power-conversion market.
The Company’s chief operating decision maker, the Chief Executive Officer, reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance.
Customer Concentration



The Company's top ten customers accounted for approximately 56% and 57% of net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and approximately 56% and 55% of net revenues, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2017.
These distributors sell the Company’s products to a broad, diverse range of end users, including OEMs and merchant power supply manufacturers.
Sales to distributors were $83.3 million and $245.4 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and $83.2 million and $249.3 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2017.
Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, one customer, a distributor of the Company's products, accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s net revenues.
The following table discloses this customer’s percentage of revenues for the respective periods:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s net revenues in the periods presented.
14

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



Concentration of Credit Risk



Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash investments and trade receivables.
The Company does not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to its customers.
As of September 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017, 67% and 64%, respectively, of accounts receivable were concentrated with the Company’s top 10 customers.
As of September 30, 2018, two customers, both distributors of the Company’s products, represented 10% or more of the Company’s accounts receivable.
As of December 31, 2017, one of these customers represented 10% or more of the Company’s accounts receivable.
The following table discloses these customers’ percentage of accounts receivable as of the respective dates:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



______________



*Total customer percentage of accounts receivable was less than 10%.
No other customer represented 10% or more of the Company’s accounts receivable as of the dates presented.
Geographic Net Revenues



The Company markets its products globally through its sales personnel and a worldwide network of independent sales representatives and distributors.
Geographic net revenues, based on “bill to” customer locations, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and September 30, 2017, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



8.
COMMON STOCK REPURCHASES AND CASH DIVIDENDS:



Common Stock Repurchases



As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately $44.4 million available under its stock-repurchase program.
In January 2018, the Company’s board of directors authorized the use of an additional $30.0 million for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock, with repurchases to be executed according to pre-defined price/volume guidelines.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares of its common stock for approximately $74.4 million, thus completing the Company’s authorized repurchase programs.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had used up the entire amount authorized for repurchase.
In October 2018, the Company’s board of directors authorized the use of an additional $80.0 million for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock, with repurchases to be executed according to pre-defined price/volume guidelines.
Cash Dividends



In January 2018, the Company’s board of directors declared four quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.16 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2018.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, and September 30, 2017, cash dividends declared and paid were as follows:



 15

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



9.
EARNINGS PER SHARE:



 Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares of common stock and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period.
Dilutive common equivalent shares included in this calculation consist of dilutive shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of outstanding common stock options, the assumed vesting of outstanding restricted stock units, the assumed issuance of awards under the stock purchase plan and contingently issuable performance-based awards, as computed using the treasury stock method.
A summary of the earnings per share calculation is as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



_______________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, no outstanding stock awards were determined to be anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share.
10.
In other cases, the Company has not been able to make a reasonable estimate.
The Company has not recorded any additional measurement-period adjustments during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period that should not extend beyond one year from the Tax Act enactment date for companies to complete the accounting under ASC 740.
The items for which the Company was able to determine a reasonable estimate includes a provisional one-time transition tax of $35.3 million, which was included as a component of the income tax provision for the year-ended December 31, 2017.
The Company also re-measured certain deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in future periods, which is generally 21%.
In the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded a provisional amount of $4.9 million related to the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The Company is allowed to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or (2) factoring such amounts into the Company’s measurement of deferred taxes (the “deferred method”).
Whether the Company expects to have future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI depends on not only the Company’s current structure and estimated future results of global operations but also the Company’s intent and ability to modify the Company’s structure and/or business.
The Company has not made any provisional adjustments related to potential GILTI deferred taxes in the Company’s financial statements and has not made a policy decision regarding whether to record deferred taxes on GILTI.
However, the Company has included a current estimate of the 2018 GILTI impact in the computation of the annual effective tax rate.
The Company's effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, were 7.6% and 6.3%, respectively, and 2.6% and 1.2% for the corresponding periods of 2017.
These benefits were offset in part by the estimated 2018 GILTI tax for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company maintained a valuation allowance on its California deferred tax assets, New Jersey deferred tax assets and a valuation allowance with respect to its deferred tax assets relating to tax credits in Canada.
11.
COMMITMENTS:



Supplier Agreements



Under the terms of the Company's wafer-supply agreements with Seiko Epson Corporation ("Epson"), and ROHM Lapis Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ("Lapis") the wafers purchased from these suppliers are priced in U.S. dollars; however, these agreements also allow for mutual sharing of the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation between Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar on future purchases.
Each year, the Company's management and these two suppliers review and negotiate future pricing; the negotiated pricing 



 17

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



is denominated in U.S. dollars but is subject to contractual exchange rate provisions.
The fluctuation in the exchange rate is shared equally between the Company and each of these suppliers on future purchases.
12.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES:



From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company becomes involved in lawsuits, or customers and distributors may make claims against the Company.
On October 20, 2004, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc. and Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
In its complaint, the Company alleged that Fairchild has and is infringing four of Power Integrations’ patents pertaining to pulse width modulation (PWM) integrated circuit devices.
The Court issued a claim construction order on March 31, 2006 which was favorable to the Company.
The Court set a first trial on the issues of infringement, willfulness and damages for October 2, 2006.
At the close of the first trial, on October 10, 2006, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the Company finding all asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit to be willfully infringed by Fairchild and awarding $34.0 million in damages.
Fairchild raised defenses contending that the asserted patents are invalid or unenforceable, and the Court held a second trial on these issues beginning on September 17, 2007.
On September 21, 2007, the jury returned a verdict in the Company’s favor, affirming the validity of the asserted claims of all four patents-in-suit.
Fairchild submitted further materials on the issue of enforceability along with various other post-trial motions, and the Company filed post-trial motions seeking a permanent injunction and increased damages and attorneys’ fees, among other things.
On September 24, 2008, the Court denied Fairchild’s motion regarding enforceability and ruled that all four patents are enforceable.
On December 12, 2008, the Court ruled on the remaining post-trial motions, including granting a permanent injunction, reducing the damages award to $6.1 million, granting Fairchild a new trial on the issue of willful infringement in view of an intervening change in the law, and denying the Company’s motion for increased damages and attorneys’ fees with leave to renew the motion after the resolution of the issue of willful infringement.
On December 22, 2008, at Fairchild’s request, the Court temporarily stayed the permanent injunction for 90 days.
On January 12, 2009, Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the Court’s refusal to enter a more permanent stay of the injunction, and Fairchild filed additional motions requesting that both the Federal Circuit and the District Court extend the stay of injunction.
The District Court temporarily extended the stay pending the Federal Circuit ruling on Fairchild’s pending motion, but the Federal Circuit dismissed Fairchild’s appeal and denied its motion on May 5, 2009, and the District Court issued an order on May 13, 2009 confirming the reinstatement of the permanent injunction as originally entered in December 2008.
On June 22, 2009, the Court held a brief bench re-trial on the issue of willful infringement.
On July 22, 2010, the Court found that Fairchild willfully infringed all four of the asserted patents, and the Court also invited briefing on enhanced damages and attorneys’ fees.
Fairchild also filed a motion requesting that the Court amend its findings regarding willfulness.
On February 3, 2011, the Court entered final judgment in favor of the Company for a total damages award of $12.9 million.
Fairchild filed a notice of appeal challenging the final judgment and a number of the underlying rulings, and the Company filed a cross-appeal seeking to increase the damages award.
The Company filed a petition seeking Supreme Court review of the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages issues, and the Supreme Court called for a response from Fairchild but ultimately declined to review the case.
Moreover, following a new Supreme Court case on patent damages, the District Court on October 4, 2018 determined that the Federal Circuit’s ruling on damages in the earlier appeal had been overruled; further briefing on the scope of the proceedings on remand is expected in the coming months.
On May 23, 2008, the Company filed a complaint against Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
Fairchild’s answer also included counterclaims accusing the Company of infringing three patents pertaining to primary side power conversion integrated circuit devices.
Fairchild had earlier brought these same claims in a separate suit against the Company, also in Delaware, which Fairchild dismissed in favor of adding its claims to the Company’s already pending suit against Fairchild.
Fairchild also filed a motion to stay the case, but the Court denied that motion on December 



 18

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



19, 2008.
On March 5, 2009, Fairchild filed a motion for summary judgment to preclude any recovery for post-verdict sales of parts found to infringe in the parties’ other ongoing litigation, described above, and the Company filed its opposition and a cross-motion to preclude Fairchild from re-litigating the issues of infringement and damages for those same products.
On June 26, 2009, the Court held a hearing on the parties’ motions, and on July 9, 2009 the Court issued an order denying the parties’ motions but staying proceedings with respect to the products that were found to infringe and which are subject to the injunction in the other Delaware case between the parties pending the entry of final judgment in that case; those products are expected to be addressed in the context of the parties’ remand proceedings following the appeal in their earlier litigation in Delaware, and the remainder of the case is proceeding.
On December 18, 2009, the Court issued an order construing certain terms in the asserted claims of the Company’s and Fairchild’s patents in suit.
The parties thereafter filed and argued a number of motions for summary judgment, and the Court denied the majority of the parties’ motions but granted the Company’s motion to preclude Fairchild from re-arguing validity positions that were rejected in the prior case between the parties.
Because the assigned Judge retired at the end of July 2010, the case was re-assigned to a different Judge, and the Court vacated the trial schedule and had the parties provide their input on the appropriate course of action.
The Court thereafter set a trial schedule with the jury trial on infringement and validity to begin in July 2011.
On April 18, 2011, the Court rescheduled the trial to begin in January 2012, and on June 2, 2011, the Court moved the trial date to April 2012 to permit the parties to address another patent the Company accused Fairchild of infringing.
On April 25, 2013, the Court denied both parties’ motions regarding the unenforceability of each other’s patents.
Following a hearing on the issue in June 2014, the Court denied Fairchild’s request for an injunction against the Company and granted the Company’s request for an injunction against Fairchild.
On January 13, 2015, the District Court entered final judgment on the liability and validity issues discussed above, and both parties filed appeals with the Federal Circuit.
After briefing was completed, oral argument on the appeal took place in early July 2016, and on December 12, 2016, the Federal Circuit issued its opinion in the appeal, overturning the lone infringement verdict against the Company, finding one of the Company’s patents invalid, and overturning the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement.
In view of the Federal Circuit’s rejection of the District Court’s jury instruction on inducement, the Court also vacated the inducement findings and associated injunction against Fairchild and remanded the case for a retrial on inducement, but the underlying validity and infringement findings against Fairchild on those two patents remain intact.
On June 28, 2004, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, against System General Corporation (SG), a Taiwanese company, and its U.S. subsidiary.
On June 10, 2005, in response to the initiation of an International Trade Commission (ITC) investigation on the patents asserted in the District Court lawsuit, the District Court stayed all proceedings.
Subsequent to the completion of the ITC proceedings, the District Court temporarily lifted the stay and scheduled a case management conference.
On December 6, 2006, SG filed a notice of appeal of the ITC decision.
In response, and by agreement of the parties, the District Court vacated the scheduled case management conference and renewed the stay of proceedings pending the outcome of the Federal Circuit appeal of the ITC determination.
On November 19, 2007, the Federal Circuit affirmed the ITC’s findings in all respects, and SG did not file a petition for review.
The parties subsequently filed a motion to dismiss the District Court case without prejudice.
Both parties filed summary judgment motions and challenges to each other’s experts’ testimony, and the Court granted the Company’s motion for summary judgment of non-infringement with respect to one of Fairchild’s two patents.
The Jury also rejected Fairchild’s remaining counterclaims for infringement against the Company.
Fairchild challenged these rulings in post-trial motions, but the judge confirmed the jury’s determinations on infringement and damages, although the Court declined to find Fairchild’s infringement willful.
Fairchild also requested reconsideration of the damages determinations, and the Court granted a new trial with respect to damages but none of the other issues addressed in the previous trial, with the retrial scheduled for December 2015.
Thereafter, the parties completed pretrial proceedings challenging each other’s experts, and the Court granted portions of each party’s motions limiting the scope of expert testimony for purposes of the damages retrial, but neither party was successful in their efforts to prevent the other side’s experts from testifying at trial.
Although the jury awarded damages, at this stage of the proceedings the Company cannot state the amount, if any, it might ultimately recover from Fairchild, and no benefits have been recorded in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as a result of the damages verdict.
Fairchild filed post-trial motions challenging the verdict, but the Court rejected Fairchild’s motions challenging the damages verdict in August 2016.
The Company also filed motions requesting enhanced damages and attorney fees and reinstatement of the willfulness finding against Fairchild in view of an intervening change of law; on January 13, 2017, the District Court reinstated the finding that Fairchild’s infringement was willful but declined to enhance damages or award fees.
In January 2017, Fairchild filed a further challenge to the verdict, but the Court rejected Fairchild’s motion and entered a final judgment of $146.5 million after factoring in pre-judgment interest.
In July 2018, on appeal, the Federal Circuit affirmed the findings that Fairchild infringed both of the Company’s asserted patents but vacated the damages award and remanded the case for further proceedings.
The Company intends to pursue its claim for damages, although the claims at issue in litigation currently stand rejected in IPR proceedings, subject to appeal as discussed below.
On July 11, 2011, the Company filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, against David Kappos in his capacity as Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) as part of the ongoing reexamination proceedings related to one of the patents asserted against Fairchild and SG in the Delaware litigation described above.
The Company filed a motion for summary judgment on a preliminary jurisdictional issue, and the PTO filed a cross-motion to dismiss on this same issue; briefing on those motions was completed in October, 2011.
On November 18, 2013, the Court granted the PTO’s motion and transferred the case to the Federal Circuit, where additional briefing took place.
Following a hearing in May 2015, the Federal Circuit ruled in the Company’s favor on August 12, 2015, overturning the PTO’s claim construction and remanding the case for further proceedings.
On remand, the PTO ignored the Federal Circuit’s guidance, so the Company filed another appeal to the Federal Circuit; in that second appeal, the Federal Circuit overturned the PTO’s rulings and confirmed the validity of the challenged claims of the Company’s patent on March 19, 2018.
On September 21, 2018, the Patent Office issued a reexamination certificate confirming the validity of the claims of the patent in question, bringing this matter to a close.
On May 1, 2012, Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation and Fairchild’s wholly owned subsidiary, System General Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”), filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware.
Both parties filed post-trial motions and challenges to various portions of the jury verdicts, and the Court addressed the first wave of post-trial motions, denying each side’s challenges to the verdict and denying Fairchild’s request for an injunction.
In parallel proceedings, the Federal Circuit overturned the underlying finding of infringement against the Company on the Fairchild patent-in-suit, and the Company moved to vacate the inducement and damages judgment against the Company, a motion that Fairchild did not oppose.
On October 21, 2015, the Company filed a complaint for patent infringement against in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., and wholly-owned subsidiary Fairchild (Taiwan) Corporation (referred to collectively as “Fairchild”) to address Fairchild’s continued infringement of two patents Fairchild was previously found to infringe in the three District Court cases the Company brought against Fairchild discussed above.
In each of the three prior cases, Fairchild was found to infringe one of the patents at issue in the latest 



 20

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



complaint, and Fairchild’s challenges to the validity of the patents were rejected during the course of the prior lawsuits as well.
On December 15, 2016, the Court stayed the case pending resolution of the parties’ inter partes review (IPR) and reexamination proceedings regarding the patents-in-suit.
Further rulings are expected from the Court in the coming months in view of additional briefing regarding the Company’s proposal to move forward with some of the Company’s claims.
6,212,079 (the ‘079 patent), which the Company has asserted against Fairchild Semiconductor in the California litigation initiated in 2004, as discussed above.
The Company’s ‘079 patent is also asserted in the Company’s most recent lawsuits against Fairchild filed in October 2015 and against ON Semiconductor filed in November 2016, also discussed herein.
Since that time, ON Semiconductor has filed eleven more IPR petitions requesting review of various patents that the Company has previously asserted against Fairchild as described above, and another eleven IPR petitions requesting review of various patents that the Company has asserted against ON Semiconductor as described herein.
The PTO also instituted IPR proceedings in response to eight of ON Semiconductor’s eleven other petitions challenging patents previously asserted against Fairchild, denying institution in three cases, and the PTO has rejected a number of the Company’s patent claims in the context of these ongoing proceedings.
In one case, the PTO rejected as anticipated the claims of the Company’s U.S. Patent No.
6,538,908 that were asserted in litigation against Fairchild; an appeal is under way, with briefing expected in the coming months, and further proceedings and appeals regarding other IPRs are expected in the coming months as well.
Although the validity of many of the Company’s challenged patents has previously been confirmed in the Company’s District Court litigation with Fairchild and in many cases in prior PTO reexamination proceedings as well, and though the Company intends to vigorously defend the validity of its patents, the outcome of the IPR proceedings is uncertain.
On April 1, 2016, Opticurrent, LLC filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to California, which the Court granted, and the case was assigned to a new judge in San Francisco following the transfer.
Further proceedings are expected over the course of the coming months, with trial scheduled for February 2019.
The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against Opticurrent’s claims.
On August 11, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona.
The Company filed a motion to transfer the case to the Northern District of California, which the Court granted, and the case has been consolidated with the Company’s affirmative case against ON Semiconductor in the Northern District of California, as discussed below.
The Company believes it has valid defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself against ON Semiconductor’s claims.
On November 1, 2016, the Company filed a lawsuit against ON Semiconductor in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California to address ON Semiconductor’s infringement of six patents.
The court denied ON Semiconductor’s motion requesting that the case be transferred to Arizona and scheduled trial for December of 2019, with interim deadlines for claim construction and dispositive motions.
In consolidating the pleadings from the California and Arizona cases following the transfer of ON Semiconductor’s case from Arizona, ON Semiconductor asserted two additional patents, bringing the total number of patents asserted against the Company to eight in this case, and ON Semiconductor’s amended complaint also seeks a declaration of non-infringement with respect to another of the Company’s patents that was previously asserted against Fairchild Semiconductor.
Further proceedings and discovery will take place over the coming months, with a trial scheduled for December of 2019.
On December 27, 2016, ON Semiconductor filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
On March 9, 2017, ON Semiconductor dismissed its Texas complaint and re-filed a substantially similar complaint in the District of Delaware.
After the Company filed a motion to dismiss, ON Semiconductor filed an amended complaint; the Company has answered ON Semiconductor’s complaint and asserted claims for infringement of several of the Company’s patents.
Trial has been scheduled for February of 2020, with interim deadlines for discovery and dispositive motions.
The Company believes it has valid defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself against ON Semiconductor’s claims.
21

POWER INTEGRATIONS, INC.



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)



In November 2017, ON Semiconductor filed suit against the Company in Taiwan charging the Company with infringing three Taiwanese patents and seeking an injunction and damages of approximately $1.0 million.
The Company is unable to predict the outcome of legal proceedings with certainty, and there can be no assurance that Power Integrations will prevail in the above-mentioned unsettled litigations.
13.
INDEMNIFICATIONS:



The Company sells products to its distributors under contracts, collectively referred to as Distributor Sales Agreements (“DSA”).
The DSA generally limits the scope of and remedies for the Customer Indemnification obligations in a variety of industry-standard respects, including, but not limited to, limitations based on time and geography, and a right to replace an infringing product.
The Company also, from time to time, has granted a specific indemnification right to individual customers.
The Company believes its internal development processes and other policies and practices limit its exposure related to such indemnifications.
In addition, the Company requires its employees to sign a proprietary information and inventions agreement, which assigns the rights to its employees' development work to the Company.
To date, the Company has not had to reimburse any of its distributors or customers for any losses related to these indemnifications and no material claims were outstanding as of September 30, 2018.
22

ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 12, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A.
30
