ITEM 1.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In millions, except per share data)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
3



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(In millions, except per share data)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
4



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME



(In millions)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
5



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(In millions)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
6



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 1.
Basis of Presentation



Financial Statement Preparation.
These condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by QUALCOMM Incorporated (collectively with its subsidiaries, the Company or Qualcomm) in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of management, the interim financial information includes all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
These condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2017.
Operating results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire fiscal year.
The Company operates and reports using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in September.
Each of the three-month periods ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016 included 13 weeks.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) attributable to Qualcomm by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to Qualcomm by the combination of dilutive common share equivalents, comprised of shares issuable under the Company’s share-based compensation plans, if any, and the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period.
The following table provides information about the diluted earnings per share calculation (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Share-Based Compensation.
Total share-based compensation expense, related to all of the Company’s share-based awards, was comprised as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At December 24, 2017, total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested restricted stock units granted prior to that date was $1.5 billion, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
At December 24, 2017, the Company had 28.8 million restricted stock units outstanding and 9.1 million stock options outstanding.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.
Share-based Awards: In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance that changed the accounting for share-based awards, including income taxes, classification of awards and classification in the 



7



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
In accordance with the new guidance, excess tax benefits or deficiencies associated with share-based awards are recognized through earnings when the awards vest or settle, rather than in stockholders’ equity.
In addition, cash flows related to excess tax benefits are presented as an operating activity and cash payments made on an employee’s behalf for withheld shares are presented as financing activities, with the prior periods adjusted accordingly.
As a result of these changes, amounts for the three months ended December 25, 2016 have been adjusted as follows: net cash provided by operating activities increased by $207 million with a corresponding offset to net cash used in financing activities.
The new guidance also impacts the Company’s earnings per share calculation as the estimate of dilutive common share equivalents under the treasury stock method no longer assumes that the estimated tax benefits realized when an award is settled are used to repurchase shares.
There was no impact of this change on the Company’s calculation of earnings per share as a result of the net loss for the three months ended December 24, 2017.
The Company elected to continue its practice of estimating forfeitures expected to occur in determining the amount of compensation cost to be recognized each period.
Revenue Recognition: In May 2014, the FASB issued new guidance related to revenue recognition, which outlines a comprehensive revenue recognition model and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance.
The new guidance requires a company to recognize revenue as control of goods or services transfers to a customer at an amount that reflects the expected consideration to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
It defines a five-step approach for recognizing revenue, which may require a company to use more judgment and make more estimates than under the current guidance.
The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 and currently expects to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.
Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new guidance, the Company has made progress in the identification of changes to policy, processes, systems and controls, and the Company continues to assess data availability and presentation necessary to meet the additional disclosure requirements of the guidance in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company currently expects the adoption of this new guidance to most significantly impact its licensing business.
Specifically, the Company expects a change in the timing of revenues recognized from sales-based royalties.
The Company currently recognizes sales-based royalties as revenues in the period in which such royalties are reported by licensees, which is after the conclusion of the quarter in which the licensees’ sales occur and when all other revenue recognition criteria are met.
Under the new guidance, the Company expects to estimate the amount of all customer incentives.
Additionally, it changes the disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Early adoption is permitted for certain provisions.
The Company does not intend to adopt any of the provisions early and is in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets.
Under the new guidance, credit losses for certain types of financial instruments will be estimated based on expected losses.
The new guidance also modifies the impairment models for available-for-sale debt securities and for purchased financial assets with credit deterioration since their origination.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2021.
Early adoption is permitted starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company is in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements as well as whether to adopt the new guidance early.
8



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Leases: In February 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to leases that outlines a comprehensive lease accounting model and supersedes the current lease guidance.
The new guidance requires lessees to recognize lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets for all leases with lease terms of greater than 12 months.
It also changes the definition of a lease and expands the disclosure requirements of lease arrangements.
Currently, the new guidance must be adopted using the modified retrospective approach, including a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance in the earliest period presented.
In January 2018, the FASB issued an exposure draft that, if adopted, would allow for recognition of the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance in the year of adoption, among other changes.
The Company will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and is in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The new guidance also modifies disclosure requirements for hedging activities.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and early adoption is permitted in any interim period.
The Company is in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements as well as whether to adopt the new guidance early.
Other: In August 2016, the FASB issued new guidance related to the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments on the statement of cash flows.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
The Company does not intend to adopt the new guidance early and does not expect the effects of the adoption to have a material impact on its consolidated statements of cash flows.
In October 2016, the FASB issued new guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
The new guidance will be effective for the Company starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
The Company does not intend to adopt the new guidance early and is in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on its consolidated financial statements.
Note 2.
Other expenses in the three months ended December 24, 2017 was comprised of the $1.2 billion charge related to the European Commission (EC) fine (Note 6).
Other expenses in the three months ended 



9



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



December 25, 2016 consisted of a $868 million charge related to the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) fine and $8 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to the Company’s Strategic Realignment Plan.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 3.
Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
The Company has elected to account for GILTI as period costs if and when incurred pursuant to the exposure draft issued by the FASB in January 2018.
The total estimated Toll Charge of $5.3 billion was recognized discretely in the first quarter of fiscal 2018 related to cumulative E&P through the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company remeasured its deferred tax assets and liabilities that existed at the end of fiscal 2017 based on the income tax rate at which they are expected to reverse, which primarily assumes the reduced income tax rate of 21% 



10



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



applicable in fiscal 2019, resulting in a reduction to non-current deferred tax assets of $562 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Should the Company decide to no longer indefinitely reinvest such earnings outside the U.S., the Company would have to adjust the income tax provision in the period such determination is made.
The Company will elect to pay the Toll Charge, interest free, over a period of eight years, with payments beginning on January 15, 2019.
Pursuant to the exposure draft issued by the FASB in January 2018, the Company did not discount the amount of the Toll Charge.
Unrecognized tax benefits were $342 million and $372 million at December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, respectively.
The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at December 24, 2017 may increase or decrease in the next 12 months.
As of December 24, 2017, the Company believes that adequate amounts have been reserved for based on facts known.
11



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 4.
Stockholders’ Equity



Changes in stockholders’ equity in the three months ended December 24, 2017 were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes, in stockholders’ equity in the three months ended December 24, 2017 were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Stock Repurchase Program.
On March 9, 2015, the Company announced a stock repurchase program authorizing it to repurchase up to $15 billion of the Company’s common stock.
The stock repurchase program has no expiration date.
In the three months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, the Company repurchased and retired 3.7 million and 6.6 million shares for $225 million and $444 million, respectively, before commissions.
At December 24, 2017, $1.4 billion remained authorized for repurchase under the Company’s stock repurchase program.
Dividends.
Cash dividends announced in the three months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016 were $0.57 and $0.53 per share, respectively.
Dividends charged to retained earnings in the three months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016 were $862 million and $801 million, respectively.
On January 12, 2018, the Company announced a cash dividend of $0.57 per share on the Company’s common stock, payable on March 21, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 28, 2018.
Note 5.
Debt



Revolving Credit Facility.
The Company has an Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $5.0 billion, of which $530 million and $4.47 billion will expire in February 2020 and November 2021, respectively.
Proceeds from the 



12



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility are expected to be used for general corporate purposes.
At December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility.
Commercial Paper Program.
The Company has an unsecured commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper.
Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes.
Maturities of commercial paper can range from 1 day to up to 397 days.
At December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, the Company had $2.0 billion and $999 million, respectively, of outstanding commercial paper recorded as short-term debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 1.28% and 1.19%, respectively, which included fees paid to the commercial paper dealers and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 36 days and 45 days, respectively.
The carrying value of the outstanding commercial paper approximated its estimated fair value at December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017.
Term Loan Facility.
The Company is party to a Credit Agreement that provides for senior unsecured delayed-draw term facility loans in an aggregate amount of $4.0 billion (Term Loan Facility).
Proceeds from the Term Loan Facility, if drawn, will be used to finance the proposed acquisition of NXP (Note 8).
Commitments under the Term Loan Facility will expire on the first to occur of (i) the consummation of the proposed acquisition of NXP without using loans under the Term Loan Facility, (ii) the termination of Qualcomm River Holdings’s obligation to consummate the proposed acquisition of NXP and (iii) April 25, 2018 (which reflects a second automatic extension of the original expiration date of October 27, 2017 in accordance with the NXP purchase agreement, and as such date may be further extended in accordance with the NXP purchase agreement).
At December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, the Company had not borrowed any funds under the Term Loan Facility.
13



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Long-term Debt.
The following table provides a summary of the Company’s long-term debt (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company’s 2019 floating-rate notes, 2020 floating-rate notes, 2019 fixed-rate notes and 2020 fixed-rate notes issued in May 2017 for an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion are subject to a special mandatory redemption at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of such mandatory redemption.
The redemption is required on the first to occur of (i) the termination of the NXP purchase agreement or (ii) April 25, 2018 (which reflects a second automatic extension of the original expiration date of October 27, 2017 in accordance with the NXP purchase agreement, and as such date may be further extended in accordance with the NXP purchase agreement to a date on or prior to June 1, 2018).
The Company may redeem the fixed-rate notes at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at specified make-whole premiums as defined in the applicable form of note.
The Company may not redeem the other floating-rate notes prior to maturity.
The obligations under the notes rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company’s other senior unsecured indebtedness and will effectively rank junior to all liabilities of the Company’s subsidiaries.
At December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, the aggregate fair value of the notes, based on Level 2 inputs, was approximately $20.9 billion and $21.5 billion, respectively.
In connection with issuance of the May 2015 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $3.0 billion, which effectively converted all of the fixed-rate notes due in 2018 and approximately 43% and 50% of the fixed-rate notes due in 2020 and 2022, respectively, into floating-rate notes.
The net gains and losses on the interest rate swaps, as well as the offsetting gains or losses on the related fixed-rate notes attributable to the hedged risks, are 



14



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



recognized in earnings in interest expense in the current period.
The Company did not enter into similar interest rate swaps in connection with issuance of the May 2017 Notes.
The effective interest rates for the notes include the interest on the notes, amortization of the discount, which includes debt issuance costs, and if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes.
Cash interest paid related to the Company’s commercial paper program and long-term debt, net of cash received from the related interest rate swaps, was $257 million and $134 million in the three months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016.
Debt Covenants.
The Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility require that the Company comply with certain covenants, including one financial covenant to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated interest expense, as defined in each of the respective agreements, of not less than three to one at the end of each fiscal quarter.
The Company is not subject to any financial covenants under the notes nor any covenants that would prohibit the Company from incurring additional indebtedness ranking equal to the notes, paying dividends, issuing securities or repurchasing securities issued by it or its subsidiaries.
At December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017, the Company was in compliance with the applicable covenants under each facility outstanding at such time.
Note 6.
Commitments and Contingencies



Legal and Regulatory Proceedings.
On August 21, 2014, ParkerVision amended the complaint, now captioned ParkerVision, Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated, Qualcomm Atheros, Inc., HTC Corporation, HTC America, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., LTD., Samsung Electronics America, Inc. and Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, broadening the allegations.
On February 2, 2016, after agreement among the parties, the District Court stayed the remainder of the case pending the resolution of the complaint filed by ParkerVision against the Company and other parties with the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) described below.
Subsequently, ParkerVision announced that it had reached a settlement with Samsung which dismissed the Samsung entities from the District Court case.
After the ITC action described below was closed, and upon agreement among the parties, on May 24, 2017, the District Court further stayed the District Court case pending ParkerVision’s appeal of the USPTO’s invalidation decisions.
Apple Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., LTD., Samsung Electronics America, Inc., Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, Samsung Semiconductor, Inc., LG Electronics, Inc., LG Electronics U.S.A., Inc. and LG Electronics MobileComm U.S.A., Inc. are also named defendants.
On December 15, 2015, ParkerVision filed a complaint with the ITC pursuant to Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 against the same parties asserting the same four patents.
On January 13, 2016, the Company served its answer to the District Court complaint.
On January 15, 2016, the ITC instituted an investigation.
On February 12, 2016, the District Court case was stayed pending completion of the ITC investigation.
Subsequently, ParkerVision announced that it had reached a settlement with Samsung which dismissed the Samsung entities from the ITC investigation and related District Court case.
On February 2, 2017, the ITC granted ParkerVision’s motion to drop all but one patent and one accused product from the ITC investigation.
On March 12, 2017, one day before the ITC hearing was scheduled to begin, ParkerVision moved to withdraw its ITC complaint in its entirety.
The Company and the other defendants did not oppose the withdrawal of the complaint.
On April 28, 2017, the ITC formally closed the investigation.
On May 4, 2017, ParkerVision filed a motion to reopen the related District Court Case, and on May 26, 2017, the District Court granted the motion.
Briefing for claim construction is complete, but no dates have been set for a claim construction hearing or trial.
15



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Apple Inc. (Apple) v. QUALCOMM Incorporated: On January 20, 2017, Apple filed a complaint against the Company in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California seeking declarations with respect to several of the Company’s patents and alleging that the Company breached certain agreements and violated federal antitrust and California state unfair competition laws.
Apple sought injunctive relief with respect to these claims and a judgment awarding its expenses, costs and attorneys’ fees.
On April 10, 2017, the Company filed its Answer and Counterclaims (amended on May 24, 2017) in response to Apple’s complaint denying Apple’s claims and asserting claims against Apple.
On June 19, 2017, Apple filed a Partial Motion to Dismiss the Company’s counterclaim for violation of the California Unfair Competition Law.
The court granted that motion on November 8, 2017.
Apple also added claims for declaratory judgments that certain of the Company’s agreements are unenforceable.
The court granted the Company’s motion on November 8, 2017.
On July 18, 2017, Apple filed a motion to consolidate this action with QUALCOMM Incorporated v. Compal Electronics, Inc., et al., discussed below, and on September 13, 2017, the court granted that motion.
Fact discovery is set to close in these cases on May 11, 2018.
A final pretrial conference is scheduled for September 28, 2018.
The trials have not yet been scheduled.
On March 31, 2017, the court granted an application by Apple Inc. to join the actions as a plaintiff, and Apple amended the complaints.
The AML complaint seeks a decree that the Company cease the alleged abuse of dominance, as well as damages in the amount of 1 billion Chinese Renminbi (approximately $152 million based on the exchange rate on December 24, 2017).
Apple also seeks its expenses in each of the cases.
The complaints seek declaratory judgments of non-infringement of three Qualcomm patents.
The Company has filed jurisdictional and other objections to the complaints.
On February 16, 2017, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries filed four complaints against the Company in the Tokyo District Court.
In three of the complaints, Apple seeks declaratory judgment of non-infringement by Apple of three of the Company’s patents.
Apple also seeks an award of fees.
On January 30, 2018, the court dismissed one of the complaints, finding that Apple lacked standing based on the facts it alleged in that complaint.
The court has yet to rule on whether Apple has standing in the remaining complaints.
On May 15, 2017, the Company learned of the fourth complaint.
In that complaint, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries seek damages of 100 million Japanese Yen (approximately $1 million based on the exchange rate on December 24, 2017) from the Company, based on allegations that the Company violated the Japanese Antimonopoly Act and the Japanese Civil Code.
The Company has filed jurisdictional and other objections to all four of the complaints.
Apple subsequently filed an Amended Claim Form and Particulars of Claim.
Finally, Apple seeks declarations that five of the Company’s European (UK) patents are invalid and not essential, and an order that each of those patents be revoked.
The complaint also seeks damages of 10 million Taiwan Dollars (less than $1 million based on the exchange rate on December 24, 2017), among other relief.
Apple seeks damages and costs.
The Company has filed jurisdictional objections to the complaints.
The Company believes Apple’s claims in the above matters are without merit.
17



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



QUALCOMM Incorporated v. Compal Electronics, Inc. et al.
: On May 17, 2017, the Company filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against Compal Electronics, Inc. (Compal), FIH Mobile, Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. (together with FIH Mobile, Ltd., Foxconn), Pegatron Corporation (Pegatron) and Wistron Corporation (Wistron) asserting claims for injunctive relief, specific performance, declaratory relief and damages stemming from the defendants’ breach of contracts by ceasing the payment of royalties for iPhones and other devices which they manufacture for Apple.
On July 17, 2017, Compal, Foxconn, Pegatron and Wistron each filed third-party complaints for contractual indemnity against Apple seeking to join Apple as a party to the action.
On July 18, 2017, Apple filed an answer to these third party complaints acknowledging its indemnity agreements and consenting to be joined.
On July 18, 2017, the defendants filed an Answer and Counterclaims to the complaint, asserting defenses and counterclaims similar to allegations previously made by Apple in the Apple Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated case in the Southern District of California discussed above.
In addition, the defendants asserted certain new claims, including claims under Section 1 of the Sherman Act and California’s Cartwright Act.
On July 18, 2017, Apple filed a motion to consolidate this action with the Apple Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated case in the Southern District of California.
On September 13, 2017, the court granted Apple’s consolidation motion.
Fact discovery is set to close in these cases on May 11, 2018.
A final pretrial conference is scheduled for September 28, 2018.
The trials have not yet been scheduled.
QUALCOMM Incorporated v. Apple Inc.: On July 6, 2017, the Company filed a complaint against Apple in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California asserting claims for damages and injunctive relief for infringement of six of the Company’s patents directed to a variety of features found in iPhone models.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
Apple filed an Answer and Counterclaims in the District Court case on September 26, 2017, but no schedule has been set in that case.
On November 29, 2017, Apple filed a First Amended Answer and Counterclaims asserting that the Company’s Snapdragon processors infringe eight Apple patents.
On August 8, 2017, the ITC issued a notice of institution of an investigation.
On August 25, 2017, the Company withdrew allegations as to one patent in both the ITC investigation and the District Court case.
A claim construction hearing and technology tutorial was held in the ITC investigation on January 23, 2018.
The ITC investigation is scheduled for evidentiary hearing by the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) from June 18-26, 2018.
The ALJ’s Initial Determination on the merits is due on September 14, 2018, and the target date for final determination by the ITC is set for January 14, 2019.
A case management conference in the district court case was held on January 26, 2018.
No trial date has been set.
On November 1, 2017, the Company filed a complaint against Apple in San Diego Superior Court for breach of the Master Software Agreement between the companies.
The complaint recounts instances when Apple failed to protect the Company’s software as required by the agreement and failed to provide sufficient information to which the Company is entitled under the agreement in order to understand whether other breaches have occurred.
The complaint seeks specific performance of Apple’s obligations to cooperate with an audit of its handling of the Company’s software, damages and injunctive relief.
Apple filed its Answer to the Complaint on December 29, 2017.
A case management conference is scheduled for July 20, 2018.
No trial date has yet been set.
On November 29, 2017, the Company filed three additional complaints against Apple in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging infringement of a total of 16 of the Company’s patents.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief.
No case schedules have yet been set.
Case management conferences have been set for February 7, 2018 and March 1, 2018.
No trial dates have been set.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On January 2, 2018, the ITC instituted an investigation.
The complaints seek remedies including, among other relief, declaratory relief confirming liability on the merits for damages and injunctive relief.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On November 13, 2017, the Company filed three complaints against certain of Apple’s subsidiaries in the Beijing (China) High People’s Court, asserting infringement of three patents.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief, damages and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On December 19, 2017, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the Chinese Patent Review Board (PRB) for each of the three asserted patents.
PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents are expected to begin in April 2018.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
The court has set hearings on the merits of infringement to begin on August 16, 2018 for one of the cases and August 18, 2018 for the other two cases.
Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the Chinese Patent Review Board (PRB) on December 8, 2017 for one of the patents and December 11, 2017 for the other two patents.
PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents are expected to begin in April 2018.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief, damages and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
3226701 Canada, Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated et al: On November 30, 2015, plaintiffs filed a securities class action complaint against the Company and certain of its current and former officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California.
On April 29, 2016, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint.
On January 27, 2017, the court dismissed the amended complaint in its entirety, granting leave to amend.
The second amended complaint sought unspecified damages, interest, attorneys’ fees and other costs.
On May 8, 2017, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint.
On October 20, 2017, the court entered an order granting in part the Company’s motion to dismiss, and on November 29, 2017, the court entered an order granting the remaining portions of the Company’s motion to dismiss.
On December 28, 2017, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
Consolidated Securities Class Action Lawsuit: On January 23, 2017 and January 26, 2017, respectively, two securities class action complaints were filed by purported stockholders of the Company in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors.
The complaints sought unspecified damages, interest, fees and costs.
On May 4, 2017, the court consolidated the two actions and appointed lead plaintiffs.
On 



19



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



July 3, 2017, the lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint asserting the same basic theories of liability and requesting the same basic relief.
On September 1, 2017, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.
The court has not yet ruled on the motion.
Consumer Class Action Lawsuit: Since January 18, 2017, a number of consumer class action complaints have been filed against the Company in the United States District Courts for the Southern and Northern Districts of California, each on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of cellular phones and other cellular devices.
Twenty-two such cases remain outstanding.
In April 2017, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred the cases that had been filed in the Southern District of California to the Northern District of California.
On May 15, 2017, the court entered an order appointing the plaintiffs’ co-lead counsel, and on May 25, 2017, set a trial date of April 29, 2019.
The complaint seeks unspecified damages and disgorgement and/or restitution, as well as an order that the Company be enjoined from further unlawful conduct.
On August 11, 2017, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.
Canadian Consumer Class Action Lawsuits: Since November 9, 2017, four consumer class action complaints have been filed against the Company in Canada (two in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, one in the Superior Court of Quebec and one in the Supreme Court of British Columbia) alleging various violations of Canadian competition and consumer protection laws.
The claims are similar to those in the FTC and U.S. consumer class action complaints.
The complaints seek unspecified damages.
The Company has not yet answered the complaints.
Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) Complaint: The JFTC received unspecified complaints alleging that the Company’s business practices are, in some way, a violation of Japanese law.
The Company disagrees with the conclusions that it forced its Japanese licensees to agree to any provision in the parties’ agreements and that those provisions violate the Japanese Antimonopoly Act.
The Company has invoked its right under Japanese law to an administrative hearing before the JFTC.
In February 2010, the Tokyo High Court granted the Company’s motion and issued a stay of the cease and desist order pending the administrative hearing before the JFTC.
The JFTC has held hearings on 37 different dates.
No further hearings are currently scheduled.
The KFTC levied a fine, which the Company paid and recorded as an expense in fiscal 2010.
The Company appealed to the Seoul High Court, and on June 19, 2013, the Seoul High Court affirmed the KFTC’s decision.
On July 4, 2013, the Company filed an appeal with the Korea Supreme Court.
There have been no material developments since then with respect to this matter.
Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) Investigation: On March 17, 2015, the KFTC notified the Company that it was conducting an investigation of the Company relating to the Korean Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act (MRFTA).
On December 27, 2016, the KFTC announced that it had reached a decision in the investigation, finding that the Company violated provisions of the MRFTA.
The KFTC’s decision orders the Company to: (i) upon request by modem chipset companies, engage in good-faith negotiations for patent license agreements, without offering unjustifiable conditions, and if 



20



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



necessary submit to a determination of terms by an independent third party; (ii) not demand that handset companies execute and perform under patent license agreements as a precondition for purchasing modem chips; (iii) not demand unjustifiable conditions in the Company’s license agreements with handset companies, and upon request renegotiate existing patent license agreements; and (iv) notify modem chipset companies and handset companies of the decision and order imposed on the Company and report to the KFTC new or amended agreements.
According to the KFTC’s decision, the foregoing will apply to transactions between the Company and the following enterprises: (i) handset manufacturers headquartered in Korea and their affiliate companies; (ii) enterprises that sell handsets in or to Korea and their affiliate companies; (iii) enterprises that supply handsets to companies referred in (ii) above and the affiliate companies of such enterprises; (iv) modem chipset manufacturers headquartered in Korea and their affiliate companies; and (v) enterprises that supply modem chipsets to companies referred in (i), (ii) or (iii) above and the affiliate companies of such enterprises.
The KFTC’s decision also imposed a fine of approximately 1.03 trillion Korean Won (approximately $927 million), which was paid on March 30, 2017.
The Company believes that its business practices do not violate the MRFTA, and on February 21, 2017 filed an action in the Seoul High Court to cancel the KFTC’s decision.
On the same day, the Company filed an application with the Seoul High Court to stay the decision’s remedial order pending the Seoul High Court’s final judgment on the Company’s action to cancel the KFTC’s decision.
On September 4, 2017, the Seoul High Court denied the Company’s application to stay the remedial order, and on November 27, 2017, the Korea Supreme Court dismissed the Company’s appeal of the Seoul High Court’s decision on the application to stay.
The Seoul High Court has not ruled on the Company’s action to cancel the KFTC’s decision.
Icera Complaint to the European Commission (EC): On June 7, 2010, the EC notified and provided the Company with a redacted copy of a complaint filed with the EC by Icera, Inc. (subsequently acquired by Nvidia Corporation) alleging that the Company has engaged in anticompetitive activity.
The Company was asked by the EC to submit a preliminary response to the portions of the complaint disclosed to it, and the Company submitted its response in July 2010.
Subsequently, the Company provided additional documents and information as requested by the EC.
On July 16, 2015, the EC announced that it had initiated formal proceedings in this matter.
On December 8, 2015, the EC announced that it had issued a Statement of Objections expressing its preliminary view that between 2009 and 2011, the Company engaged in predatory pricing by selling certain baseband chipsets to two customers at prices below cost, with the intention of hindering competition.
A Statement of Objections informs the subject of the investigation of the allegations against it and provides an opportunity to respond to such allegations.
It is not a determination of the final outcome of the investigation.
On August 15, 2016, the Company submitted its response to the Statement of Objections.
It is difficult to predict the outcome of this matter or what remedies, if any, may be imposed by the EC.
The Company believes that its business practices do not violate the European Union (EU) competition rules.
European Commission (EC) Investigation: On October 15, 2014, the EC notified the Company that it was conducting an investigation of the Company relating to Articles 101 and/or 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
On July 16, 2015, the EC announced that it had initiated formal proceedings in this matter.
On December 8, 2015, the EC announced that it had issued a Statement of Objections expressing its preliminary view that pursuant to an agreement with a customer, since 2011 the Company paid significant amounts to that customer on condition that it exclusively use the Company’s baseband chipsets in its smartphones and tablets.
On January 24, 2018, the EC issued a decision finding that certain terms of that agreement violate EU competition law and imposed a fine of approximately 997 million Euros (approximately $1.2 billion based on the exchange rate at December 24, 2017), which was recorded as a charge to other expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The Company intends to provide a financial guarantee within three months of the notification date to satisfy the obligation and to appeal the EC’s decision to the General Court of the European Union.
The Company believes that its business practices do not violate the EU competition rules.
United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) v. QUALCOMM Incorporated: On September 17, 2014, the FTC notified the Company that it is conducting an investigation of the Company relating to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTCA).
On April 19, 2017, the court set a trial date for January 4, 2019.
The Company believes the FTC’s claims are without merit.
Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (TFTC) Investigation: On December 4, 2015, the TFTC notified the Company that it was conducting an investigation into whether the Company’s patent licensing practices violate the Taiwan Fair Trade Act (TFTA).
On October 11, 2017, the TFTC announced that it had reached a decision in the investigation, finding that the Company violated the TFTA.
The TFTC’s decision orders the Company to: (1) cease the following conduct within 60 days of the day after receipt of the decision: (a) applying the clauses in an agreement entered into with a competing chip supplier requesting it to provide sensitive sales information such as chip prices, customers, sales volumes, product types and serial numbers; (b) applying clauses in component supply agreements entered into with handset manufacturers relating to the refusal to sell chips to unlicensed manufacturers; and (c) applying discount clauses in the exclusive agreement entered into with a relevant enterprise; (2) notify competing chip companies and handset manufacturers in writing within 30 days after receipt of the decision that those companies may request to amend or enter into patent license agreements and other relevant agreements within 60 days of the day following the day such notices are received, and upon receipt of such requests, the Company shall commence negotiation in good faith; (3) submit status reports to the TFTC on any such negotiations every six months beginning from the day after receipt of the decision, as well as to submit a report to the TFTC within 30 days after amendments to any license agreements or newly signed license agreements are executed.
The TFTC’s decision also imposed a fine of 23.4 billion Taiwan Dollars (approximately $781 million based on the exchange rate at December 24, 2017), which will be paid in 60 monthly installments beginning on January 30, 2018.
The Company recorded $156 million of the fine in other current liabilities and $625 million in other liabilities at December 24, 2017.
The Company believes that its business practices do not violate the TFTA, and on November 10, 2017, the Company filed an Application for Stay of Enforcement of the TFTC’s decision in the Taiwan Intellectual Property Court (IPC).
The TFTC filed an opposition brief on December 8, 2017, and the IPC held a hearing on December 11, 2017.
The IPC has not yet ruled on the Company’s Application.
On December 22, 2017, the Company filed an Administrative Litigation Complaint in the IPC to revoke the TFTC’s decision.
TFTC has not yet filed its response.
Contingent losses: The Company will continue to vigorously defend itself in the foregoing matters.
However, litigation and investigations are inherently uncertain.
Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Indemnifications.
Reimbursements under indemnification arrangements have not been material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Purchase Obligations and Operating Leases.
The Company has agreements with suppliers and other parties to purchase inventory, other goods and services and long-lived assets.
Integrated circuit product inventory obligations represent purchase commitments for raw materials, semiconductor die, finished goods and manufacturing services, such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test.
The Company leases certain of its land, facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating leases, with terms ranging from less than one year to 21 years and with provisions in certain leases for cost-of-living increases.
Obligations under these purchase agreements and future minimum lease payments under these operating leases at December 24, 2017 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Commitments.
At December 24, 2017, the Company was committed to fund certain strategic investments up to $433 million, of which $65 million and $61 million is expected to be funded in the remainder of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2021, respectively.
The remaining commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions.
Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be funded under these arrangements; actual funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all.
Note 7.
Segment Information



The Company is organized on the basis of products and services and has three reportable segments.
The Company conducts business primarily through its QCT (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) semiconductor business and its QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) licensing business.
The Company’s QSI (Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives) reportable segment makes strategic investments and includes revenues and related costs associated with development contracts with an equity method investee.
The Company also has nonreportable segments, including its mobile health, data center, small cell and other wireless technology and service initiatives.
The Company evaluates the performance of its segments based on earnings (loss) before income taxes (EBT).
In fiscal 2018, all of the costs related to pre-commercial research and development of 5G (fifth generation) technology, of which $100 million was recorded in the three months ended December 24, 2017, are included in unallocated corporate research and development expenses, whereas similar costs related to the research and development of other technology, including 3G (third generation) and 4G (fourth generation) technology, were recorded in both the QCT and QTL segments.
Unallocated other expenses in the three months ended December 25, 2016 were comprised primarily of the KFTC fine (Note 6).
24



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Unallocated acquisition-related expenses were comprised as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 8.
Acquisitions 



Completed.
On February 3, 2017 (the Closing Date), the Company and TDK Corporation (TDK) completed the formation of a joint venture, under the name RF360 Holdings Singapore Pte.
The joint venture is owned 51% by Qualcomm Global Trading Pte.
Ltd. (Qualcomm Global Trading), a Singapore corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and 49% by EPCOS AG (EPCOS), a German wholly-owned subsidiary of TDK.
Qualcomm Global Trading has the option to acquire (and EPCOS has an option to sell) EPCOS’s interest in the joint venture for $1.15 billion (Settlement Amount) 30 months after the Closing Date (the Put and Call Option).
The Put and Call Option was recorded as a liability at fair value at close and included in other noncurrent liabilities.
The liability is being accreted to the Settlement Amount, with the offset recorded as interest expense.
The carrying value of the Put and Call Option approximated its estimated fair value at December 24, 2017 and September 24, 2017.
EPCOS is entitled to up to a total of $200 million in payments based on sales of RF filter functions over the three-year period after the Closing Date, which is a substitute for and in lieu of the right of EPCOS to receive any profit sharing, distributions, dividends or other payments of any kind or nature.
The total purchase price consisted of the following (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was completed as of December 24, 2017.
The major classes of assets and liabilities to which we allocated the purchase price based on their fair values were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company recognized $843 million in goodwill related to this transaction, of which $366 million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The goodwill recognized was allocated to the QCT segment for annual impairment testing 



25



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



purposes.
The goodwill is primarily attributable to the assembled workforce and synergies expected to arise after the acquisition.
Each category of intangible assets acquired will be amortized on a straight-line basis over the weighted-average useful lives of seven years for technology-based intangible assets, nine years for customer-related intangible assets and one year for marketing-related intangible assets.
Proposed.
On October 27, 2016, the Company announced a definitive agreement under which Qualcomm River Holdings, B.V. (Qualcomm River Holdings), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of QUALCOMM Incorporated, will acquire NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXP).
Pursuant to the definitive agreement, Qualcomm River Holdings has commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of NXP for $110 per share in cash, for estimated total cash consideration to be paid to NXP’s shareholders of $38 billion.
The transaction is subject to receipt of regulatory clearance under applicable laws and other closing conditions, including the tender of at least 80% of the issued and outstanding common shares of NXP in the offer (provided that the minimum tender threshold may be reduced to a percentage not less than 70% with the prior written consent of NXP).
At an Extraordinary General Meeting of NXP’s shareholders held on January 27, 2017, NXP’s shareholders approved certain matters relating to the transaction, including the appointment of designees of Qualcomm River Holdings to NXP’s board of directors (effective upon the closing of the transaction) and certain transactions that are intended to be consummated after the completion of the tender offer.
In May 2017, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $11.0 billion of unsecured floating- and fixed-rate notes with varying maturities, of which a portion will be used to fund the purchase price and other related transactions.
In addition, the Company has secured $4.0 billion in committed financing through a Term Loan Facility, which is expected to be drawn on at the close of the NXP transaction (Note 5).
The remaining amount will be funded with cash held by foreign entities.
Qualcomm River Holdings and NXP may terminate the definitive agreement under certain circumstances.
If the definitive agreement is terminated by NXP in certain circumstances, NXP will be required to pay Qualcomm River Holdings a termination fee of $1.25 billion.
If the definitive agreement is terminated by Qualcomm River Holdings under certain circumstances involving the failure to obtain the required regulatory approvals or the failure of NXP to complete certain pre-closing reorganization steps in all material respects, Qualcomm River Holdings will be required to pay NXP a termination fee of $2.0 billion.
In November 2016, as required by the definitive agreement, Qualcomm River Holdings entered into four letters of credit for an aggregate amount of $2.0 billion related to the potential termination fee payable to NXP.
Pursuant to the terms of each letter of credit, NXP will have the right to draw amounts to fund certain termination compensation owed by Qualcomm River Holdings to NXP if the definitive agreement is terminated under certain circumstances.
The letters of credit expire on June 30, 2018 or if drawn on by NXP or surrendered by Qualcomm River Holdings.
Each letter of credit is required to be fully cash collateralized in an amount equal to 100% of its face value through deposits with the issuers of the letters of credit.
Qualcomm River Holdings is restricted from using the funds deposited as collateral while the letters of credit are outstanding.
At December 24, 2017, the letters of credit were fully collateralized through bank time and demand deposits, which were recorded as other noncurrent assets.
26



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 9.
Fair Value Measurements



The following table presents the Company’s fair value hierarchy for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 24, 2017 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Activity between Levels of the Fair Value Hierarchy.
There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 in the three months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016.
There were no transfers of marketable securities into or out of Level 3 during the three months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016.
Other investments and other liabilities included in Level 3 at December 24, 2017 were comprised of convertible debt instruments issued by private companies and contingent consideration related to business combinations, respectively.
There were no transfers of convertible debt instruments or contingent consideration amounts into or out of Level 3 during the three months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016.
Note 10.
Marketable Securities



Marketable securities were comprised as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



27



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



The contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Debt securities with no single maturity date included debt funds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities and auction rate securities.
The Company recorded realized gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale securities as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Available-for-sale securities were comprised as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In connection with the proposed NXP transaction (Note 8), the Company divested a substantial portion of its marketable securities portfolio in order to finance, in part, that transaction.
Marketable securities that were expected to be used to finance the NXP transaction were classified as noncurrent at December 24, 2017 as they are not considered available for current operations.
Given the change in the Company’s intention to sell certain marketable securities, the Company recognized other-than-temporary impairment losses in fiscal 2017 for certain marketable securities and no additional losses were recognized in the three months ended December 24, 2017 (Note 2).
For the available-for-sale securities that are not expected to be sold to finance the NXP transaction, the Company concluded that the unrealized losses were temporary at December 24, 2017.
28



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 11.
Subsequent Events



On January 16, 2018, the Company announced a cost reduction plan designed to align the Company’s cost structure to its long-term margin targets.
The Company expects these cost reductions to be fully captured in fiscal 2019.
The Company is in the process of finalizing its plan, as well as the restructuring and restructuring-related costs it expects to incur to execute its plan.
29



ITEM 1.
ITEM 1A.
