ITEM 1.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In millions, except per share data)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
3



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(In millions, except per share data)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
4



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 



(In millions)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
5



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(In millions)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
6



QUALCOMM Incorporated



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(In millions, except per share data)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying notes.
7



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 1.
Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies Update



Financial Statement Preparation.
These condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
In the opinion of management, the interim financial information includes all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
These condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018.
Operating results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire fiscal year.
We operate and report using a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in September.
Each of the three-month and six-month periods ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018 included 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements.
As previously disclosed, in connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended December 30, 2018, we identified an immaterial error related to the recognition of certain royalty revenues of our QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) segment in the quarterly and annual periods in fiscal 2018 and third and fourth quarters and annual period in fiscal 2017.
In accordance with SAB No.
99, “Materiality,” and SAB No.
A summary of revisions to certain previously reported financial information presented herein for comparative purposes is included in Note 11.
Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share.
Basic earnings (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income by the combination of dilutive common share equivalents, comprised of shares issuable under our share-based compensation plans and shares subject to accelerated share repurchase agreements, if any, and the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period.
Due to the net loss for the six months ended March 25, 2018, all of the common share equivalents issuable under share-based compensation plans had an anti-dilutive effect and were therefore excluded from the computation of diluted loss per share.
The following table provides information about the diluted earnings (loss) per share calculation (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



8



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Share-Based Compensation.
Total share-based compensation expense, related to all of our share-based awards, was comprised as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At March 31, 2019, total unrecognized compensation expense related to nonvested restricted stock units granted prior to that date was $1.4 billion, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
At March 31, 2019, we had outstanding 30.4 million restricted stock units that contain only a service requirement and 3.1 million stock options that contain only a service requirement.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements.
Revenue Recognition: In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition (ASC 606), which outlines a comprehensive revenue recognition model and supersedes most current revenue recognition accounting guidance and requires increased disclosures.
The new accounting guidance defines a five-step approach that requires a company to recognize revenue as control of goods or services transfers to a customer at an amount that reflects the expected consideration to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
We adopted ASC 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method only to those contracts that were not completed as of October 1, 2018.
We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue accounting guidance as an adjustment to opening retained earnings.
Prior period results have not been restated and continue to be reported in accordance with the accounting guidance in effect for those periods (ASC 605).
We have implemented new accounting policies, systems, processes and internal controls necessary to support the requirements of ASC 606.
Adoption of this new accounting guidance most significantly impacts the timing of sales-based royalty revenues, which are the vast majority of our QTL segment’s revenues.
Prior to adoption, we recognized sales-based royalties as revenues in the period in which such royalties were reported by licensees, which was after the conclusion of the quarter in which the licensees’ sales occurred and when all other revenue recognition criteria had been met.
Since we do not invoice for sales-based royalties estimated and recognized in any given quarter until after the conclusion of that quarter (which is generally the following quarter when such royalties are reported by licensees), revenues recognized from sales-based royalties results in unbilled receivables (included in accounts receivable, net on the consolidated balance sheet).
The adoption of ASC 606 did not otherwise have a material impact.
The new accounting guidance also impacts the timing of recognizing certain customer incentives, which are recorded as a reduction to revenues in the period that the related revenues are earned.
Under the new accounting guidance, we estimate the amount of all customer incentives.
Financial Assets: In January 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance on classifying and measuring financial instruments, which requires that all equity investments, other than equity-method investments, in unconsolidated entities generally be measured at fair value through earnings in the statement of operations.
Additionally, it changes the disclosure requirements for financial instruments.
We adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method for investments in marketable securities, which have readily determinable fair values, with the cumulative effect of applying the new accounting guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings.
Upon adoption, we reclassified $50 million of unrealized gains, net of the associated tax effects, related to our investments in marketable securities from accumulated other comprehensive income to opening retained earnings.
We have applied the prospective transition method for investments in non-marketable securities, which are investments in privately held companies that do not have readily determinable fair values and will recognize, through earnings, any unrealized gains that have accumulated in the period in which there is an observable transaction, if any.
Hedge Instruments: In August 2017, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that expands and refines hedge accounting for both financial and non-financial risks, aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of hedging instruments and hedged items in the financial statements, and includes targeted improvements related to the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
The new accounting guidance also modifies disclosure requirements for hedging activities.
We adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method and recorded a negligible adjustment to opening retained earnings.
Statement of Cash Flows: In August 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows.
We adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method for each period presented, which did not have a material impact on our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
In November 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that requires companies to include restricted cash and cash equivalents as a component in total cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows.
As a result, the consolidated statement of cash flows no longer reflects transfers between cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents.
We adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method, which results in certain amounts in fiscal 2018 being adjusted to conform to the new accounting guidance.
This includes restricted cash and cash equivalents held during fiscal 2018 related to funds deposited as collateral for outstanding letters of credit in connection with a then proposed acquisition.
Restricted cash and cash equivalents related to the outstanding letters of credit totaled $2.0 billion at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 and second quarter of fiscal 2018.
There was no impact of this change on the activity presented on the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months ended March 25, 2018.
Under the new accounting guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
We adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 using the modified retrospective transition method, with the cumulative effect of applying the new accounting 



11



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings of $2.6 billion, primarily as the result of establishing a deferred tax asset on the basis difference of certain intellectual property distributed from one of our foreign subsidiaries to a subsidiary in the United States in fiscal 2018 (Note 3).
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted.
Leases: In February 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to leases that outlines a comprehensive lease accounting model and supersedes the current lease accounting guidance.
The new accounting guidance requires lessees to recognize lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets for all leases with lease terms of greater than 12 months.
It also changes the definition of a lease and expands the disclosure requirements of lease arrangements.
We will adopt the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and expect to use the modified retrospective approach and to elect certain practical expedients, with the cumulative effect of applying the new accounting guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings as of the effective date.
We are in the process of determining the effects the adoption will have on our consolidated financial statements.
Financial Assets: In June 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that changes the accounting for recognizing impairments of financial assets.
Under the new accounting guidance, credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost will be estimated based on expected losses rather than the current incurred loss impairment model.
The new accounting guidance also modifies the impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities.
The new accounting guidance generally requires the modified retrospective transition method, with the cumulative effect of applying the new accounting guidance recognized as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption, except for certain financial assets where the prospective transition method is required, such as available-for-sale debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment has been recorded.
Accounting Policy Update.
Revenue Recognition: As a result of the adoption of ASC 606, we revised our revenue recognition policy beginning in fiscal 2019 as follows.
We also generate revenues by performing software hosting, software development and other services and from other product sales.
Revenues from providing services are typically recognized over time as our performance obligation is satisfied.
Revenues from providing services were less than 5% of total revenues for all periods presented.
Sales-based royalties are generally based upon a percentage of the wholesale (i.e., licensee’s) selling price of complete licensed products, net of certain permissible deductions (including transportation, insurance, packing costs and other items).
We broadly provide per unit royalty caps that apply to certain categories of complete wireless devices, namely smartphones, tablets and laptops, which in general, effectively provide for a maximum royalty amount per device.
As a result of recognizing revenues in the period in which the licensees’ sales occur using estimates, adjustments to revenues are required in subsequent periods to reflect changes in estimates as new information becomes available, primarily resulting from actual amounts reported by our licensees.
We measure revenues based on the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for products or services.
The charges for such arrangements are recorded as a reduction to accounts receivable, net or as other current liabilities based on whether we have the intent and contractual right of offset.
Certain of these charges are considered variable consideration and are included in the transaction price primarily based on estimating the most likely amount expected to be provided to the customer/licensee.
Substantially all of QCT’s revenues consist of equipment revenues that are recognized at a point in time, and substantially all of QTL’s revenues represent licensing revenues that are recognized over time.
Revenues recognized from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods were $398 million and $394 million for the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and primarily relate to certain customer incentives, QTL royalty revenues recognized related to devices sold in prior periods and revenues related to a development contract with one of our equity method investees.
Unearned revenues (which are considered contract liabilities) consist primarily of license fees for intellectual property with continuing performance obligations.
In the six months ended March 31, 2019, we recognized revenues of $258 million that were recorded as unearned revenues at October 1, 2018.
Our remaining performance obligations are primarily comprised of certain customer contracts for which QTL received license fees upfront.
At March 31, 2019, we had $1.8 billion of remaining performance obligations, of which $235 million, $470 million, $423 million, $416 million and $193 million was expected to be recognized as revenues for the remainder of fiscal 2019 and each of the subsequent four years from fiscal 2020 through 2023, respectively, and $77 million thereafter.
13



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Marketable Securities and Non-Marketable Securities: Prior to the adoption of the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, investments in marketable equity securities were generally classified as available-for-sale equity investments, with net unrealized gains or losses recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes.
Beginning in fiscal 2019, all gains and losses on investments in marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in investment and other income, net.
Prior to the adoption of the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, investments in non-marketable equity securities were recorded at cost less impairment, if any, with any losses resulting from an impairment recognized in investment and other income, net.
Beginning in fiscal 2019, investments in non-marketable equity securities are recorded at cost, less impairments (if any), adjusted for observable price changes in orderly transactions for identical or similar securities (if any).
All gains and losses on investments in non-marketable equity securities, realized and unrealized, are recognized in investment and other income, net.
Note 2.
Composition of Certain Financial Statement Items



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The increase in unbilled receivables was primarily due to the adoption of ASC 606 (Note 1).
Accounts receivable at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018 included approximately $960 million related to the short payment in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 of royalties reported by and deemed collectible from Apple’s contract manufacturers.
This same amount was recorded in customer-related liabilities (in other current liabilities) for Apple, since we do not have the contractual right to offset these amounts.
On April 16, 2019, we entered into settlement agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers to dismiss all outstanding litigation between the parties, and as a result, these amounts were settled (Note 12).
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Equity Method and Non-marketable Equity Investments.
The carrying values of our equity method and non-marketable equity investments are recorded in other noncurrent assets and were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, non-marketable debt and equity securities (non-cash consideration) with an aggregate fair value of $98 million were received related to a development contract with one of our equity method investees.
Since contract revenues were no longer constrained, such amount was recognized as revenues from a previously satisfied performance obligation in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
In addition, in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, non-marketable equity securities (non-cash consideration) with a fair value of $53 million were received in connection with the sale of certain assets as part of the Cost Plan (Note 8).
14



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Beginning on August 4, 2019, for a period of 60 days, we have the option to acquire (and the minority owner has the option to sell) the minority ownership interest in the RF360 Holdings joint venture for $1.15 billion, and we expect one of such options to be exercised during this period.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the accreted value of such amount was included in other current liabilities.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
Changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of income taxes, in stockholders’ equity in the six months ended March 31, 2019 were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income included adjustments of $51 million to the opening retained earnings balance as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 related to financial instruments and hedge instruments (Note 1).
Other income in the three months ended March 31, 2019 included a $43 million gain due to the partial recovery of a fine imposed in fiscal 2009 resulting from our appeal of the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) decision (Note 6), partially offset by $25 million in net restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan (Note 8).
Other expenses in the six months ended March 31, 2019 included $204 million in net restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan, partially offset by a $43 million gain due to the partial recovery of a fine we previously paid to the KFTC and a $31 million gain related to a favorable legal settlement.
Other expenses in the three months ended March 25, 2018 consisted of $310 million in restructuring and restructuring-related charges related to our Cost Plan.
Other expenses in the six months ended March 25, 2018 also included a $1.2 billion charge related to the European Commission (EC) fine (Note 6).
15



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 3.
As a result, without considering the effects of the agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers signed in April 2019 (Note 12), substantially all of our income is in the U.S. and qualifies for preferential treatment as FDII, and the impact of GILTI and BEAT are negligible.
Upon adoption of new accounting guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a deferred tax asset of approximately $2.6 billion, primarily related to the distributed intellectual property, with an adjustment to opening retained earnings (Note 1).
Our second quarter of fiscal 2019 results reflected an estimated annual effective income tax rate of approximately 6% benefit for fiscal 2019, which included the impact of the tax benefit of $570 million (which was recorded discretely in the first quarter) due to establishing new U.S. net deferred tax assets from making certain check-the-box elections and excluded the effects of the agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers signed in April 2019.
The annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2018 was also impacted by the termination fee paid to NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXP), the EC fine, settlement with the Taiwan Fair Trade Commission (TFTC), allocation of expenses to our U.S. operations and new Singapore tax incentives.
16



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



The effective tax rate of 18% for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 was higher than the estimated annual effective tax rate of 6% benefit primarily due to the tax benefit of $570 million, which was recorded discretely in the first quarter.
Unrecognized tax benefits were $228 million and $217 million at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, respectively.
These examinations are at various stages with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds, many of which are open for periods after fiscal 2000.
As of March 31, 2019, we believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for based on facts known.
Note 4.
Capital Stock



Stock Repurchase Program.
The stock repurchase program has no expiration date.
In September 2018, we entered into three accelerated share repurchase agreements (ASR Agreements) with three financial institutions under which we paid an aggregate of $16.0 billion upfront and received an initial delivery of 178.4 million shares of our common stock, which were retired.
The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average stock price of our common stock during the terms of the transactions, less a discount and subject to adjustments pursuant to the terms and conditions of the ASR Agreements and will also be retired upon delivery to us.
The ASR Agreements are scheduled to terminate in early September 2019, but may terminate earlier in certain circumstances.
At settlement, one or more of the financial institutions may be required to deliver additional shares of common stock to us, or under certain circumstances, we may be required to deliver shares of common stock or make a cash payment to one or more of the financial institutions, with the method of settlement at our election.
In the six months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018, we repurchased and retired 16.8 million and 6.8 million shares for $1.0 billion and $425 million, respectively, before commissions.
At March 31, 2019, $7.8 billion remained authorized for repurchase under our stock repurchase program.
Note 5.
Debt



Revolving Credit Facility.
We have an Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility (Revolving Credit Facility) that provides for unsecured revolving facility loans, swing line loans and letters of credit in an aggregate amount of up to $5.0 billion, of which $530 million and $4.47 billion will expire in February 2020 and November 2021, respectively.
Proceeds from the Revolving Credit Facility, if drawn, are expected to be used for general corporate purposes.
Loans under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either the reserve-adjusted Eurocurrency Rate (determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Facility) or the Base Rate (determined in accordance with the Revolving Credit Facility), in each case plus an applicable margin based on our long-term unsecured senior, non-credit enhanced debt ratings.
The margins over the reserve-adjusted Eurocurrency Rate and the Base Rate will be 0.805% and 0.00% per annum, respectively.
The Revolving Credit Facility has a facility fee, which accrues at a rate of 0.07% per annum.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we had not borrowed any funds under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Commercial Paper Program.
We have an unsecured commercial paper program, which provides for the issuance of up to $5.0 billion of commercial paper.
Net proceeds from this program are used for general corporate purposes.
Maturities of commercial paper can range from 1 day to up to 397 days.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we had $1.0 billion of outstanding commercial paper included in short-term debt with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.74% and 2.35%, respectively, which included fees paid to the commercial paper dealers, and weighted-average remaining days to maturity of 



17



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



29 days and 16 days, respectively.
The carrying value of the outstanding commercial paper approximated its estimated fair value at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018.
Long-term Debt.
The following table provides a summary of our long-term debt (in millions, except percentages):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the aggregate fair value of the notes, based on Level 2 inputs, was approximately $15.4 billion and $15.1 billion, respectively.
We may redeem the outstanding fixed-rate notes at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at specified make-whole premiums as defined in the applicable form of note.
We may not redeem the outstanding floating-rate notes prior to maturity.
The obligations under the notes rank equally in right of payment with all of our other senior unsecured indebtedness and will effectively rank junior to all liabilities of our subsidiaries.
At March 31, 2019, we had outstanding interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $1.8 billion related to the May 2015 Notes, which effectively converted approximately 43% and 50% of the fixed-rate notes due in 2020 and 2022, respectively, into floating-rate notes.
The net gains and losses on the interest rate swaps, as well as the offsetting gains or losses on the related fixed-rate notes attributable to the hedged risks, are recorded as interest expense in the current period.
We did not enter into interest rate swaps in connection with issuance of the May 2017 Notes.
The effective interest rates for the notes include the interest on the notes, amortization of the discount, which includes debt issuance costs, and if applicable, adjustments related to hedging.
Interest is payable in arrears quarterly for the floating-rate notes and semi-annually for the fixed-rate notes.
Cash interest paid related to our commercial paper program and long-term debt, net of cash received from the related interest rate swaps, was $281 million and $317 million in the six months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018, respectively.
Debt Covenants.
The Revolving Credit Facility requires that we comply with certain covenants, including one financial covenant to maintain a ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated interest expense, as defined in each of the respective agreements, of not less than three to one at the end of each fiscal quarter.
We are not subject to any financial covenants under the notes nor any covenants that would prohibit us from incurring 



18



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



additional indebtedness ranking equal to the notes, paying dividends, issuing securities or repurchasing securities issued by us or our subsidiaries.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we were in compliance with the applicable covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Note 6.
Commitments and Contingencies



Legal and Regulatory Proceedings.
Apple Inc. (Apple) v. QUALCOMM Incorporated: On January 20, 2017, Apple filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California seeking declarations with respect to several of our patents and alleging that we breached certain agreements and violated federal antitrust and California state unfair competition laws.
Separately, Apple sought to enjoin us from seeking excessive royalties from Apple and to disgorge royalties paid by Apple’s contract manufacturers that the court finds were not fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (FRAND).
Apple sought injunctive relief with respect to these claims and a judgment awarding its expenses, costs and attorneys’ fees.
On April 10, 2017, we filed our Answer and Counterclaims (amended on May 24, 2017) in response to Apple’s complaint denying Apple’s claims and asserting claims against Apple.
On June 19, 2017, Apple filed a Partial Motion to Dismiss our counterclaim for violation of the California Unfair Competition Law.
The court granted that motion on November 8, 2017.
On July 21, 2017, we filed an Answer to Apple’s Amended Complaint as well as a motion to dismiss the new declaratory judgment claims for non-infringement, invalidity and a declaration of royalties for the nine additional patents.
The court granted our motion on November 8, 2017.
On May 17, 2017, we filed a complaint (captioned QUALCOMM Incorporated v. Compal Electronics, Inc. et al.)
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against certain of Apple’s contract manufacturers, Compal Electronics, Inc. (Compal), FIH Mobile, Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. (together with FIH Mobile, Ltd., Foxconn), Pegatron Corporation (Pegatron) and Wistron Corporation (Wistron), asserting claims for injunctive relief, specific performance, declaratory relief and damages stemming from the defendants’ breach of contracts by ceasing the payment of royalties for iPhones and other devices which they manufacture for Apple.
On July 17, 2017, Compal, Foxconn, Pegatron and Wistron each filed third-party complaints for contractual indemnity against Apple seeking to join Apple as a party to the action.
On July 18, 2017, Apple filed an answer to these third-party complaints acknowledging its indemnity agreements and consenting to be joined.
On that same day, the defendants filed an Answer and Counterclaims to the complaint, asserting defenses and counterclaims similar to allegations previously made by Apple in the Apple Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated 



19



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



case discussed above.
In addition, the defendants asserted certain new claims, including claims under Section 1 of the Sherman Act and California’s Cartwright Act.
Also, on July 18, 2017, Apple filed a motion to consolidate this action with the Apple Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated case.
On September 13, 2017, the court granted Apple’s consolidation motion.
Fact discovery is closed in these cases.
On March 20, 2019, the court denied Apple’s motion.
On November 8, 2018, the court ruled on Apple’s motion regarding its alleged tortious interference, holding that Apple is not liable for tortious interference that occurred prior to January 20, 2015, but may be held liable for subsequent tortious interference.
On December 18, 2018, the court denied Apple’s motion regarding patent exhaustion as moot in light of the dismissal of the claims at issue discussed below.
Amounts unpaid (and previously accrued) by us under the Cooperation Agreement were recorded in customer-related liabilities (in other current liabilities) at March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018 (Note 2).
A jury trial commenced on April 15, 2019, and on April 16, 2019, we entered into settlement agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers to dismiss all outstanding litigation between the parties (Note 12).
On March 31, 2017, the court granted an application by Apple Inc. to join the actions as a plaintiff, and Apple amended the complaints.
The AML complaint seeks a decree that we cease the alleged abuse of dominance, as well as damages in the amount of 1 billion Chinese renminbi (approximately $149 million based on the exchange rate on March 31, 2019).
Apple also seeks its expenses in each of the cases.
The complaints seek declaratory judgments of non-infringement of three of our patents.
We filed jurisdictional and other objections to the complaints.
Apple seeks damages and costs.
We have filed jurisdictional objections to the complaints.
20



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



On February 16, 2017, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries filed four complaints against us in the Tokyo District Court.
In three of the complaints, Apple seeks declaratory judgment of non-infringement by Apple of three of our patents.
Apple also seeks an award of fees.
On January 30, 2018, April 27, 2018 and July 13, 2018, the court dismissed each of Apple’s three declaratory judgment complaints, finding that Apple lacked standing based on the facts it alleged in those complaints.
Apple has appealed all three decisions.
On December 12, 2018, February 19, 2019 and March 4, 2019, the Intellectual Property High Court ruled in our favor on each of Apple’s appeals, finding that the Tokyo District Courts were correct in dismissing Apple’s declaratory judgment complaints.
The court has yet to rule on whether Apple has standing in the remaining complaint.
On May 15, 2017, we learned of the fourth complaint.
In that complaint, Apple and one of its Japanese subsidiaries seek damages of 100 million Japanese yen (approximately $1 million based on the exchange rate on March 31, 2019) from us, based on allegations that we violated the Japanese Antimonopoly Act and the Japanese Civil Code.
We have filed jurisdictional and other objections to this complaint.
On March 2, 2017, we learned that Apple and certain of its European subsidiaries issued a Claim Form against us in the UK High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court on January 23, 2017.
Apple subsequently filed an Amended Claim Form and Particulars of Claim.
Finally, Apple seeks declarations that five of our European (UK) patents are invalid and not essential, and an order that each of those patents be revoked.
The complaint also seeks damages of 10 million Taiwan dollars (less than $1 million based on the exchange rate on March 31, 2019), among other relief.
On April 16, 2019, we entered into settlement agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers to dismiss all outstanding litigation between the parties (Note 12).
QUALCOMM Incorporated v. Apple Inc.: On July 6, 2017, we filed a complaint against Apple in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California asserting claims for damages and injunctive relief for infringement of six of our patents directed to a variety of features found in iPhone models.
On July 7, 2017, we filed a complaint against Apple in the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) requesting that the ITC institute an investigation pursuant to Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 based on Apple’s infringement of the same six patents.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
Apple filed an Answer and Counterclaims in the District Court case on September 26, 2017.
On November 29, 2017, Apple filed a First Amended Answer and Counterclaims asserting that our Snapdragon processors infringe eight Apple patents.
On August 8, 2017, the ITC issued a notice of institution of an investigation.
On August 25, 2017, we withdrew allegations as to one patent in both the ITC investigation and the district court case.
On April 25, 2018, we withdrew allegations as to two additional patents in the ITC investigation, but not the District Court case, in order to satisfy certain briefing limitations and to narrow the issues for hearing.
The ITC investigation evidentiary hearing by the 



21



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) was held June 18-26, 2018.
The ALJ’s Initial Determination on the merits was issued on September 28, 2018.
However, the ALJ recommended against an exclusion order on the grounds of public interest.
On October 15, 2018, the parties each filed petitions for review of portions of the ALJ’s decision by the full ITC.
On December 12, 2018, the ITC announced that it would review the ALJ’s determination of violation on one patent and requested public comments on the potential impact on the public interest if an exclusion order is issued.
On March 26, 2019, the ITC issued its final determination and found the remaining patent to be invalid.
The ITC’s final determination did not take a position on the public interest considerations of any potential exclusion order.
On February 5, 2019, the District Court granted Apple’s motion for summary judgment of non-infringement as to one of our asserted patents.
Trial on the remaining three of our asserted patents began on March 4, 2019 and has concluded.
Post trial proceedings are ongoing, and as a result, we did not record a gain in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The PTAB has instituted trials on three of those patents.
With respect to Apple’s patent claims against us, trial is scheduled to begin on July 15, 2019.
Those petitions are pending.
On November 1, 2017, we filed a complaint against Apple in San Diego Superior Court for breach of the Master Software Agreement between the companies.
The complaint seeks specific performance of Apple’s obligations to cooperate with an audit of its handling of our software, damages and injunctive relief.
Apple filed its answer to the complaint on December 19, 2017.
On October 26, 2018, the court granted our motion.
We filed an amended complaint on October 31, 2018 and further amended the complaint on November 15, 2018.
On December 17, 2018, Apple filed a demurrer objecting to the sufficiency of the second amended complaint.
On February 8, 2019, the court denied Apple’s demurrer.
Trial is scheduled to begin on February 7, 2020.
On November 29, 2017, we filed three additional complaints against Apple in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging infringement of a total of 16 of our patents.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
The complaints seek damages and injunctive relief.
For the case relating to the November 30, 2017 ITC investigation described below, fact discovery closed on March 13, 2019, and trial is scheduled to begin on October 21, 2019.
Apple has filed IPR petitions with the PTAB challenging the validity of four of our patents asserted in the November 30, 2017 ITC action and corresponding District Court action.
The PTAB has granted the petition as to one of those patents.
For the cases not related to the ITC investigation, Apple has challenged all of the asserted patents in IPR proceedings filed in the PTAB.
No decisions have yet been issued by the PTAB.
In total, Apple has filed 50 IPRs.
The PTAB has initiated proceedings in 36 of the IPRs to date.
As a result of the IPR proceedings, on August 29, 2018, the court stayed those two cases pending the outcome of the IPR proceedings.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
We seek a limited exclusion order and cease and desist order against importation of iPhone models that do not contain a Qualcomm brand baseband processor chipset.
On January 2, 2018, the ITC instituted an investigation.
The evidentiary hearing by the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) took place from September 17-24, 2018 and included three of our patents.
The target date for final determination by the ITC is July 26, 2019.
The complaints seek remedies including, among other relief, declaratory relief confirming liability on the merits for damages and injunctive relief.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On October 11, 2018, the Munich District Court issued a judgment declaring one of the patents asserted on October 2, 2017 as not infringed.
We have appealed that judgment.
On January 3, 2019, Qualcomm served the requisite financial guarantees to enforce the injunction in the amount of 1.3 billion Euro (approximately $1.5 billion based on the exchange rate at March 31, 2019).
Apple and its subsidiaries appealed the judgments and requested a preliminary stay of enforcement pending the appeals.
On April 9, 2019, the Munich Court of Appeals stayed the enforcement proceedings.
On January 15, 2019, the Mannheim District Court issued a judgment declaring one of the patents asserted on October 2, 2017 as not infringed.
On January 31, 2019, the Munich District Court issued judgments declaring two further patents (belonging to the same patent family) asserted on October 2, 2017 as not infringed.
We have appealed all of these judgments.
On February 25, 2019, the Mannheim District Court ordered a stay of infringement proceedings of another patent asserted on October 2, 2017, pending the decision of the Federal Patent Court on validity.
On April 5, 2019, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office revoked a patent that had been asserted on July 17, 2017 before the Mannheim District Court.
We intend to appeal this decision.
All other patents remain pending.
Dates for the pronouncements of judgment and hearings are scheduled for various dates through September 2019.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
The PRB has issued orders upholding the validity of all three patents.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief, damages and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On December 19, 2017, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB for the three asserted patents.
PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents were held in April and May 2018.
The PRB issued rulings upholding the validity of all three patents.
On May 22, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed a second invalidation request with the PRB for one of the three asserted patents.
The PRB held a hearing regarding this request on October 19, 2018.
The PRB has not ruled yet on Apple’s second invalidity challenge to the third patent.
On November 30, 2018 and December 5, 2018, Apple appealed all three of the original validity rulings from the PRB to the Beijing IP Court.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB on December 8, 2017 for one of the patents and December 11, 2017 for the other two patents.
PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents were held in April and May 2018.
The PRB issued orders upholding the validity of two of the patents subject to Apple’s invalidity challenges.
The PRB ruled that the third patent was invalid.
We have appealed the adverse PRB ruling to the Beijing IP Court.
Infringement hearings were held from August through October 30, 2018.
On November 30, 2018, the court granted our motions for preliminary injunctions with respect to two of the patents and enjoined Apple’s subsidiaries from importing, selling and offering to sell the iPhone 6S through X.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief, damages and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On February 5, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB.
PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents were held in June 2018.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On February 26, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB.
PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents were held in June 2018.
We filed an appeal of the adverse PRB ruling, and Apple filed an appeal of the other two.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On March 14, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB.
PRB hearings regarding the validity of the patents began in July 2018.
Infringement hearings for all three of the patents were held in October through December 2018.
We have appealed the adverse PRB decision, and Apple has appealed the other two.
The complaints seek remedies including injunctive relief and costs.
The patents have not been declared as essential to any standards organization and are not subject to commitments to license on FRAND terms.
On August 13, 2018, Apple’s subsidiaries filed invalidation requests with the PRB.
The PRB has held hearings regarding all three of the patents.
On April 16, 2019, we entered into settlement agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers to dismiss all outstanding litigation between the parties (Note 12).
3226701 Canada, Inc. v. QUALCOMM Incorporated et al: On November 30, 2015, a securities class action complaint was filed by purported stockholders of us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against us and certain of our current and former officers.
On April 29, 2016, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint.
On January 27, 2017, the court dismissed the amended complaint in its entirety, granting leave to amend.
The second amended complaint sought unspecified damages, interest, attorneys’ fees and other costs.
On May 8, 2017, we filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint.
On October 20, 2017, the court entered an order granting in part our motion to dismiss, and on November 29, 2017, the court entered an order granting the remaining portions of our motion to dismiss.
On December 28, 2017, the plaintiffs filed an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
A hearing has been scheduled for July 11, 2019.
We believe the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit.
Consolidated Securities Class Action Lawsuit: On January 23, 2017 and January 26, 2017, securities class action complaints were filed by purported stockholders of us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors.
The complaints sought unspecified damages, interest, fees and costs.
On May 4, 2017, the court consolidated the two actions and appointed lead plaintiffs.
On July 3, 2017, the lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint asserting the same basic theories of liability and requesting the same basic relief.
On September 1, 2017, we filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.
On March 18, 2019, the court denied our motion to dismiss the complaint.
Discovery will commence in the coming months.
We believe the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit.
24



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



In re Qualcomm/Broadcom Merger Securities Litigation (formerly Camp v. Qualcomm Incorporated et al): On June 8, 2018 and June 26, 2018, securities class action complaints were filed by purported stockholders of us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California against us and two of our current officers.
The complaints allege, among other things, that we violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, by failing to disclose that we had submitted a notice to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) in January 2018.
The complaints seek unspecified damages, interest, fees and costs.
On January 22, 2019, the Court appointed the lead plaintiff in the action and designated that the case be captioned “In re Qualcomm/Broadcom Merger Securities Litigation.” On March 18, 2019, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated complaint.
We believe the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit.
Consumer Class Action Lawsuit: Since January 18, 2017, a number of consumer class action complaints have been filed against us in the United States District Courts for the Southern and Northern Districts of California, each on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of cellular phones and other cellular devices.
Twenty-two such cases remain outstanding.
In April 2017, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transferred the cases that had been filed in the Southern District of California to the Northern District of California.
On May 15, 2017, the court entered an order appointing the plaintiffs’ co-lead counsel.
The complaint seeks unspecified damages and disgorgement and/or restitution, as well as an order that we be enjoined from further unlawful conduct.
On August 11, 2017, we filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint.
On July 5, 2018, the plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification, and the court granted that motion on September 27, 2018.
On January 23, 2019, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals granted us permission to appeal the court’s class certification order.
On January 24, 2019, the court stayed the case pending our appeal.
We believe the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit.
Canadian Consumer Class Action Lawsuits: Since November 9, 2017, eight consumer class action complaints have been filed against us in Canada (in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, the Supreme Court of British Columbia, and the Quebec Superior Court), each on behalf of a putative class of purchasers of cellular phones and other cellular devices, alleging various violations of Canadian competition and consumer protection laws.
The claims are similar to those in the FTC and U.S. consumer class action complaints.
The complaints seek unspecified damages.
One of the complaints in the Supreme Court of British Columbia has since been discontinued by the plaintiffs.
We have not yet answered the complaints.
On April 15, 2019, the Quebec Superior Court held a class certification hearing, and on April 30, 2019, the court issued an order certifying a class.
We believe the plaintiffs’ claims are without merit.
We disagree with the conclusions that we forced our Japanese licensees to agree to any provision in the parties’ agreements and that those provisions violate the Japanese Antimonopoly Act.
We invoked our right under Japanese law to an administrative hearing before the JFTC.
In February 2010, the Tokyo High Court granted our motion and issued a stay of the cease and desist order pending the administrative hearing before the JFTC.
The JFTC held hearings on 37 different dates.
The KFTC levied a fine of 273.2 billion Korean won (approximately $230 million), which we recorded as an expense in fiscal 2009 and paid in fiscal 2010.
We appealed to the Seoul High Court, and on June 19, 2013, the Seoul High Court affirmed the KFTC’s decision.
On July 4, 2013, we filed an appeal with the Korea Supreme Court.
On January 31, 2019, the Korea Supreme Court reversed in part the decision of the Seoul High Court and remanded the case for further proceedings consistent with its decision.
In March 2019, the KFTC refunded $56 million (including interest) to us, representing a portion of the fine we previously paid to the KFTC.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, we recorded a gain of $43 million in other income and interest income of 



25



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



$13 million in investment and other income, net.
In light of the Korea Supreme Court’s reversal in part of the decision of the Seoul High Court and the refund received from the KFTC, we expect to withdraw the case from the Seoul High Court.
Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) Investigation: On March 17, 2015, the KFTC notified us that it was conducting an investigation of us relating to the Korean Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act (MRFTA).
On December 27, 2016, the KFTC announced that it had reached a decision in the investigation, finding that we violated provisions of the MRFTA.
The KFTC’s decision orders us to: (i) upon request by modem chipset companies, engage in good-faith negotiations for patent license agreements, without offering unjustifiable conditions, and if necessary submit to a determination of terms by an independent third party; (ii) not demand that handset companies execute and perform under patent license agreements as a precondition for purchasing modem chipsets; (iii) not demand unjustifiable conditions in our license agreements with handset companies, and upon request renegotiate existing patent license agreements; and (iv) notify modem chipset companies and handset companies of the decision and order imposed on us and report to the KFTC new or amended agreements.
According to the KFTC’s decision, the foregoing will apply to transactions between us and the following enterprises: (i) handset manufacturers headquartered in Korea and their affiliate companies; (ii) enterprises that sell handsets in or to Korea and their affiliate companies; (iii) enterprises that supply handsets to companies referred to in (ii) above and the affiliate companies of such enterprises; (iv) modem chipset manufacturers headquartered in Korea and their affiliate companies; and (v) enterprises that supply modem chipsets to companies referred to in (i), (ii) or (iii) above and the affiliate companies of such enterprises.
The KFTC’s decision also imposed a fine of 1.03 trillion Korean Won (approximately $927 million), which we paid on March 30, 2017.
We believe that our business practices do not violate the MRFTA, and on February 21, 2017, we filed an action in the Seoul High Court to cancel the KFTC’s decision.
On the same day, we filed an application with the Seoul High Court to stay the decision’s remedial order pending the Seoul High Court’s final judgment on our action to cancel the KFTC’s decision.
On September 4, 2017, the Seoul High Court denied our application to stay the remedial order, and on November 27, 2017, the Korea Supreme Court dismissed our appeal of the Seoul High Court’s decision on the application to stay.
The Seoul High Court has not ruled on our action to cancel the KFTC’s decision.
Icera Complaint to the European Commission (EC): On June 7, 2010, the EC notified and provided us with a redacted copy of a complaint filed with the EC by Icera, Inc. (subsequently acquired by Nvidia Corporation) alleging that we were engaged in anticompetitive activity.
On July 16, 2015, the EC announced that it had initiated formal proceedings in this matter.
On December 8, 2015, the EC announced that it had issued a Statement of Objections expressing its preliminary view that between 2009 and 2011, we were engaged in predatory pricing by selling certain baseband chipsets to two customers at prices below cost, with the intention of hindering competition.
A Statement of Objections informs the subject of the investigation of the allegations against it and provides an opportunity to respond to such allegations.
It is not a determination of the final outcome of the investigation.
On August 15, 2016, we submitted our response to the Statement of Objections.
On July 19, 2018, the EC announced that it had issued a Supplementary Statement of Objections which focuses on certain elements of the “price-cost” test applied by the EC to assess the extent to which we sold certain baseband chipsets allegedly below cost.
On October 22, 2018, we submitted our response to the Supplementary Statement of Objections.
On January 10, 2019, the EC held a hearing regarding the Supplementary Statement of Objections and our response to it.
It is difficult to predict the outcome of this matter or what remedies, if any, may be imposed by the EC.
We believe that our business practices do not violate the European Union (EU) competition rules.
European Commission (EC) Investigation: On October 15, 2014, the EC notified us that it was conducting an investigation of us relating to Articles 101 and/or 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
On July 16, 2015, the EC announced that it had initiated formal proceedings in this matter.
On December 8, 2015, the EC announced that it had issued a Statement of Objections expressing its preliminary view that, pursuant to an agreement with Apple Inc., since 2011, we paid significant amounts to Apple on the condition that it exclusively use our baseband chipsets in its smartphones and tablets.
This conduct allegedly reduced Apple’s incentives to source baseband chipsets from our competitors and harmed competition and innovation for certain baseband chipsets.
On January 24, 2018, the EC issued a decision finding that certain terms of that agreement violate EU competition law and imposed a fine of 997 million Euros.
On 



26



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



April 6, 2018, we filed an appeal of the EC’s decision with the General Court of the European Union.
The court has not yet ruled on our appeal.
We believe that our business practices do not violate the EU competition rules.
We recorded a charge of $1.2 billion to other expenses related to the EC fine in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
We provided financial guarantees in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to satisfy the obligation in lieu of cash payment while we appeal the EC’s decision.
The fine is accruing interest at a rate of 1.50% per annum while it is outstanding.
At March 31, 2019, the liability, including related foreign currency gains and accrued interest (which, to the extent they were not related to the net investment hedge, were recorded in investment and other income, net), was $1.14 billion and included in other current liabilities.
United States Federal Trade Commission (FTC) v. QUALCOMM Incorporated: On September 17, 2014, the FTC notified us that it was conducting an investigation of us relating to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTCA).
A fine is not an available remedy in this matter, and the FTC has not sought monetary remedies.
On August 30, 2018, the FTC moved for partial summary judgment that our commitments to license our cellular standard-essential patents to the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) and the Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) require us to make licenses available to rival sellers of cellular modem chipsets.
On November 6, 2018, the District Court granted the FTC’s partial summary judgment motion.
On November 29, 2018, we and the FTC filed a Joint Pretrial Statement in which the FTC indicated that at trial it would seek a declaration and adjudication that our conduct violates the FTCA and seek permanent injunctive and other equitable relief, including an order that would at least (i) require us to: negotiate or renegotiate license terms with licensees in good faith under conditions free from the threat of lack of access to or discriminatory provision of cellular modem chipset supply or associated technical, software or other support; submit to arbitral or judicial dispute resolution to determine reasonable royalties and other license terms should a licensee choose to pursue such a resolution; make exhaustive standard-essential patent licenses available to cellular modem chipset suppliers on FRAND terms and submit to arbitral or judicial dispute resolution to determine such terms; and adhere to certain compliance and monitoring procedures; and (ii) prohibit us from: conditioning the supply of cellular modem chipsets on a customer’s patent-license status; discriminating or retaliating against cellular modem chipset customers or cellular modem chipset suppliers because of a customer’s license status or a dispute over license terms; making payments or providing other value to a customer contingent on the customer’s agreement to license terms; entering into exclusive-dealing agreements for the supply of cellular modem chipsets; or interfering with the ability of customers to communicate with a government agency about a potential law enforcement or regulatory matter.
Trial was held January 4-29, 2019.
The FTC alleged at trial that we have monopoly power in the markets for both CDMA and premium-tier LTE cellular modem chipsets and have acted anticompetitively in violation of either Section 1 or Section 2 of the Sherman Act, or Section 5 of the FTCA to maintain our monopoly power in one or both of these alleged markets by employing four business practices.
These practices include (i) our longstanding practice of requiring a license to our cellular standard-essential patents for a particular cellular standard before selling cellular modem chipsets that are used in cellular devices that implement such cellular standards; (ii) providing incentive payments to certain licensees in order to induce them to agree to our preferred license terms; (iii) not exhaustively licensing our cellular standard-essential patents to companies that make, use or sell cellular modem chipsets; and (iv) entering into a now-expired contract that conditioned certain payments to Apple on its not launching a new device that used a non-Qualcomm brand cellular modem chipset.
We believe the FTC’s claims and request for injunctive relief are without merit.
Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Indemnifications.
Reimbursements under indemnification arrangements have not been material to our consolidated financial statements.
Further, any possible range of loss cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.
Purchase Obligations and Operating Leases.
We have agreements with suppliers and other parties to purchase inventory, other goods and services and long-lived assets.
Integrated circuit product inventory obligations represent purchase commitments for raw materials, semiconductor die, finished goods and manufacturing services, such as wafer bump, probe, assembly and final test.
We lease certain of our land, facilities and equipment under noncancelable operating leases, with terms ranging from less than one year to 15 years and with provisions in certain leases for cost-of-living increases.
Obligations under our purchase agreements, which primarily relate to integrated circuit product inventory obligations, and future minimum lease payments under our operating leases at March 31, 2019 were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other Commitments.
At March 31, 2019, we committed to fund certain strategic investments up to $226 million, of which $32 million is expected to be funded in fiscal 2020.
The remaining commitments do not have fixed funding dates and are subject to certain conditions.
Commitments represent the maximum amounts to be funded under these arrangements; actual funding may be in lesser amounts or not at all.
In March 2018, our RF360 Holdings joint venture entered into an agreement for a build-to-suit construction project with a third-party lessor for the development of a manufacturing facility located in Singapore.
The agreement includes a long-term 



28



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



lease commitment with a noncancelable 10-year term commencing upon completion of the construction project.
At March 31, 2019, the minimum lease commitment under the agreement based on the noncancelable term was $88 million.
Note 7.
Segment Information



We are organized on the basis of products and services and have three reportable segments.
We conduct business primarily through our QCT (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) semiconductor business and our QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) licensing business.
We also have nonreportable segments, including Qualcomm Government Technologies or QGOV (formerly Qualcomm Cyber Security Solutions) and other wireless technology and service initiatives.
Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, all research and development costs associated with 5G technologies are included in segment results.
Additionally, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, certain research and development costs associated with early research and development that were historically included in our QCT segment are allocated to our QTL segment.
The net effect of these changes negatively impacted QTL’s EBT by $119 million and $241 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
QCT's EBT was positively impacted by $32 million and $44 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we combined our Small Cells business, which sells products designed for the implementation of small cells to address the challenge of meeting the increased demand for mobile data, into our QCT segment.
Revenues and operating results related to the Small Cells business were included in nonreportable segments through the end of fiscal 2018.
Prior period segment information has not been adjusted to conform to the new segment presentation as such adjustments are insignificant.
Actions taken under this plan have been completed and have resulted in us achieving substantially all of this target in fiscal 2019 based on our run rate exiting the second quarter of fiscal 2019, excluding litigation costs that are in excess of the baseline spend.
This consisted of restructuring-related charges of $156 million, primarily related to asset impairment charges (and included a $45 million net gain from the sale of certain assets related to wireless electric vehicle charging applications and the sale of our mobile health nonreportable segment), and restructuring charges of $48 million, primarily related to severance and consulting costs.
Since inception of the Cost Plan, we have incurred a total of $892 million in net restructuring and restructuring-related charges.
The remaining restructuring and restructuring-related charges to be incurred related to the plan are expected to be negligible.
30



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



The restructuring accrual, a portion of which was included in payroll and other benefits related liabilities with the remainder included in other current liabilities, is expected to be substantially paid within the next 12 months.
At March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, the restructuring accrual was $25 million and $83 million, respectively.
Note 9.
Fair Value Measurements



The following table presents our fair value hierarchy for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2019 (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Activity between Levels of the Fair Value Hierarchy.
There were no transfers of marketable securities into or out of Level 3 during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018.
Other investments and other liabilities included in Level 3 at March 31, 2019 were comprised of debt instruments issued by private companies and contingent consideration related to business combinations, respectively.
There were no transfers of debt instruments or contingent consideration amounts into or out of Level 3 during the six months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018.
Assets Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis.
During the six months ended March 31, 2019, certain intangible assets and goodwill were written down to their estimated fair values (Note 8).
We also measured certain non-marketable equity securities received as non-cash consideration at fair value on a nonrecurring basis (Note 2).
The estimation of fair value required the use of significant unobservable inputs, and as a result, the fair value measurements were classified as Level 3.
During the six months ended March 31, 2019 and March 25, 2018, we did not have any other significant assets or liabilities that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
Note 10.
Marketable Securities



Our marketable securities were comprised as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Noncurrent marketable securities were included in other assets.
31



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



The contractual maturities of available-for-sale debt securities were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Debt securities with no single maturity date included auction rate securities.
During the three and six months ended March 31, 2019, there were no realized gains or losses on sales of available-for-sale debt securities, and during the three and six months ended March 25, 2018, gross realized gains were $11 million.
As of March 31, 2019 and September 30, 2018, unrealized gains and losses on available for sale debt securities were negligible.
As of September 30, 2018, available-for-sale securities also included equity securities with a fair value of $167 million, including an unrealized gain of $63 million.
Note 11.
Revision of Prior Period Financial Statements



We revised certain prior period financial statements for an immaterial error related to the recognition of certain royalty revenues of our QTL segment (Note 1).
A summary of revisions to our previously reported financial statements presented herein for comparative purposes is included below (in millions, except per share data).
Revised Consolidated Balance Sheet.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revised Consolidated Statements of Operations.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



32



QUALCOMM Incorporated



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Revised Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss).
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revised Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
We revised our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months ended March 25, 2018 for this correction, which had no impact to net cash provided by operating activities in the period.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Revised Segment Information.
QTL segment results were revised for this correction (Note 7), which resulted in a decrease in QTL revenues and EBT (earnings before income taxes) of $41 million for the three months ended March 25, 2018 and $74 million for the six months ended March 25, 2018.
Note 12.
Subsequent Event



On April 16, 2019, we entered into settlement agreements with Apple and its contract manufacturers to dismiss all outstanding litigation between the parties.
We also entered into a six-year global patent license agreement with Apple, effective as of April 1, 2019, which includes an option for Apple to extend for two additional years, and a multi-year chipset supply agreement with Apple.
While we continue to assess the accounting impacts of the agreements, we currently expect to record revenues from previously satisfied performance obligations in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 resulting from the settlement, consisting of a payment from Apple and the release of our obligations to pay or refund Apple and the contract manufacturers certain customer-related liabilities.
Such event is considered a nonrecognized subsequent event.
33



ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



Information regarding certain legal proceedings is provided in this Quarterly Report in “Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6.
ITEM 1A.
