 Item 2:Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



This report contains forward-looking statements.
These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance.
These statements are only predictions.
Moreover, neither the Company, nor any other person, assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements.
The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
Critical Accounting Policies 



The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
We evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory reserves and contingencies on an ongoing basis.
Additionally, on November 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contacts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASC 606”) applying the modified retrospective method.
The core principle of ASC 606 is that revenue should be recorded in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for goods or services promised to customers.
Under ASC 606, the Company follows a five-step model to: (1) identify the contract with our customer; (2) identify our performance obligations in our contract; (3) determine the transaction price for our contract; (4) allocate the transaction price to our performance obligations; and (5) recognize revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied.
In accordance with this accounting principle, the Company recognizes revenue using the output method at a point in time when finished goods have been transferred to the customer and there are no other obligations to customers after the title of the goods have transferred.
Title of goods are transferred based on shipping terms for each customer – for shipments with terms of FOB Shipping Point, title is transferred upon shipment; for shipments with terms of FOB Destination, title is transferred upon delivery.
The Company has performed a review of ASC 606 as compared to its previous accounting policies for our product revenue and did not identify any material impact to revenue.
Therefore, there was no adjustment to retained earnings for a cumulative effect.
The necessary changes to business processes and controls to effectively review and account for any new contracts under this standard have been implemented.
Inventories 



Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting.
Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 



The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors.
Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill 



The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment.
Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate.
If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value.
The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment.
This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.
The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized.
Stock-based Compensation 



The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants.
These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.
Through its manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments.
The Company operates through two reporting segments: (i) the RF Connector and Cable Assembly (“RF Connector”) segment, and (ii) the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly (“Custom Cabling”) segment.
The RF Connector segment primarily designs, manufactures, markets and distributes a broad range of connector and cable products, including coaxial connectors and cable assemblies that are integrated with coaxial connectors, used in telecommunications and information technology OEM markets and other end markets.
The two segments were determined based on the aggregation of operating divisions that have similar economic characteristics and are similar in the majority of the following areas: (1) the nature of the product and services; (2) the nature of the production process; (3) the type or class of customer for their products and services; (4) the methods used to distribute their products or services; and (5) if applicable, the nature of the regulatory environment.
For the three months ended January 31, 2019, most of the Company’s revenues were generated from the Custom Cabling segment from the sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies, and wiring harnesses (which accounted for 69% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019).
Revenues from the RF Connector segment were generated from the sales of RF connector products and connector cable assemblies and accounted for 31% of the Company’s total sales for the three months ended January 31, 2019.
Liquidity and Capital Resources 



Management believes that existing current assets and the amount of cash it anticipates it will generate from current operations will be sufficient to fund the anticipated liquidity and capital resource needs of the Company for at least twelve months from the date of this filing.
Management believes that its existing assets and the cash expected to be generated from operations, including its current backlog of unfulfilled orders, will be sufficient during the current fiscal year based on the following: 



 ·As of January 31, 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalents equal to $14.0 million.
·As of January 31, 2019, the Company had $28.6 million in current assets and $3.8 million in current liabilities.
·As of January 31, 2019, the Company had no outstanding indebtedness for borrowed funds.
As of January 31, 2019, the Company had a total of $14.0 million of cash and cash equivalents compared to a total of $16.3 million of cash and cash equivalents as of October 31, 2018.
As of January 31, 2019, the Company had working capital of $24.8 million and a current ratio of approximately 7.5:1.
15 



During the year ended October 31, 2018 (“fiscal year 2018”), the Company received an influx of sales orders from customers that resulted in a sharp increase in sales and backlog from the prior fiscal year ended October 31, 2017.
Since the end of fiscal year 2018, the Company has filled most of the October 31, 2018 backlog.
However, the Company has maintained a consistent volume of bookings and shipments during the first quarter ended January 31, 2019, resulting in a substantially unchanged backlog of $11 million.
Furthermore, purchase orders may be subject to cancellation from customers, although the Company has not historically experienced material cancellations of purchase orders.
As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of January 31, 2019, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year.
The Company used cash of $2.3 million during the three months ended January 31, 2019 due largely to an increase in sales, which resulted in increased inventory purchases and an increase in outstanding accounts receivables as of quarter-end.
Net income of $0.6 million, with an added increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.1 million from depreciation and amortization and $0.1 million from stock-based compensation expense, was offset by an increase in accounts receivable ($1.4 million) and inventories ($1.1 million) as well as a decrease in accrued expenses primarily due to the payout of prior year bonuses ($1.3 million) and an increase in accounts payable ($0.4 million).
In addition, during the three months ended January 31, 2019, the Company received $0.3 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.2 million in dividends.
The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months.
In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases.
No additional capital equipment purchases have been currently identified that would require significant additional leasing or capital expenditures during the next twelve months.
Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary.
Conversely, the Company may undertake the disposition of a division or product line due to changes in the Company’s business strategy or market conditions.
Acquisitions may require the outlay of cash, which may reduce the Company’s liquidity and capital resources while dispositions may increase the Company’s cash position, liquidity and capital resources.
On March 8, 2019, the Company announced that it has entered into a binding agreement to purchase all of the assets of C Enterprises, L.P., a California based designer, manufacturer, and distributor of fiber and copper custom cables and cable assembles, and other related products used in the data center, networking, and wireless markets.
The total cash outlay related to the purchase of C Enterprises is currently not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources.
Results of Operations 



On October 31, 2018, the Company sold all of the shares of Comnet Telecom Supply, Inc (“Comnet”), a wholly-owned subsidiary that was part of the Company’s Custom Cabling segment.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, Comnet had net sales and income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income taxes of $2.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
The sale of Comnet was consistent with the Company’s business transformation toward a one company culture and operating structure to more efficiently leverage its capabilities across the entire business; Comnet Telecom’s business did not match the Company’s go-to-market strategy since it operated with a different sales model and margin profile than the rest of the Company.
Three Months Ended January 31, 2019 vs. Three Months Ended January 31, 2018 



Net sales of $10.6 million increased by 34%, or $2.7 million, for the three months ended January 31, 2019 (the “fiscal 2019 quarter”) when compared to the three months ended January 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”).
Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the Company’s Custom Cabling segment increased by $2.1 million, or 38%, when compared to the fiscal 2018 quarter as a result of increased sales of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses.
The Custom Cabling segment saw an increase in new sales due, in large part, to project work in the OEM and wireless carrier markets in addition to an increase in traditional run rate business.
Net sales for the fiscal 2019 quarter at the RF Connector segment increased by $0.6 million, or 24%, to $3.3 million as compared to $2.6 million for the fiscal 2018 quarter.
16 



Engineering expenses of $0.3 million remained unchanged from the fiscal 2019 to the fiscal 2018 quarter.
Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products.
Selling and general expenses increased $0.2 million to $2.0 million compared to $1.8 million in the first quarter last year due to higher compensation expenses as a result of increased sales at the Custom Cabling segment.
Despite this increase in expenses, selling and general expenses as a percentage of sales declined to 19% of sales compared to 22% of sales in the first quarter last year, reflecting the Company’s focus on increased operational efficiencies.
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, income (loss) from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $0.5 million and $0.3 million, respectively, as compared to $0.5 million and ($0.2) million for the comparable first quarter last year.
The income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling segment remained consistent with the first quarter last year, while the RF Connector segment had an increase in income (loss) from continuing operations primarily due to the increase in sales.
The provision for income taxes was 21% and 16% of income before income taxes for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the elimination of the benefit from the domestic production activities deduction and the one-time benefit recorded in the prior year related to the reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liability due to the change in the federal tax rate, both as a result of the Tax Act.
On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed the Tax Act, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018.
In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (SAB 118), which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date.
In the first quarter of 2019, we completed our analysis to determine the effect of the Tax Act and recorded no additional adjustments as of December 22, 2018.
All of the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during the fiscal 2018 quarter represent the results from the operations of Comnet Telecom Supply, a former subsidiary of the Company that was discontinued on October 31, 2018.
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, net income was $0.6 million and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.07 per share as compared to a net income of $0.5 million and fully diluted EPS of $0.05 per share for the fiscal 2018 quarter.
For the fiscal 2019 quarter, the diluted weighted average shares outstanding was 9,838,154 as compared to 9,099,301 for the fiscal 2018 quarter.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



Nothing to report.
