Item 2.
We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The Company utilizes a 52/53 week fiscal year, ending on the Friday closest to January 31, with fiscal quarters typically consisting of 13 weeks.
Fiscal 2019 began on February 3, 2018 and ended on February 1, 2019, while fiscal 2020 began on February 2, 2019 and ends on January 31, 2020.



Business Overview



We are a leading technology integrator providing full life cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 50 years.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
We serve our customers through approximately 2,200 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 23,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.
Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
Economic Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks



In fiscal year 2019, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
Appropriations measures passed in September 2018 and February 2019, when combined, provide full funding for the federal government through the end of government fiscal year (GFY) 2019.
These bills are funded at increased levels for defense and non-defense spending based on a bi-partisan agreement reached in February 2018 to lift caps set by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
However, beyond GFY 2019, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in the BCA.
Without additional action in the form of another bi-partisan budget agreement to lift the BCA caps, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
In addition, if there were a Continuing Resolution of longer than a few months to begin GFY 2020, the effect of the BCA caps, absent a change in the law, would be to reduce spending levels through sequestration from the levels set for GFY 2019 to much lower levels set in the BCA for GFY 2020.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns, and issues related to mandatory increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (the debt ceiling was reached in March 2019, and the Treasury is now operating under "extraordinary measures" which will be exhausted in approximately October 2019).
-19-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts.
SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers.
In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
Our solutions are inspired through innovation based on adoption of best practices and technology integration of the best capabilities available.
Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus.
On January 14, 2019, we completed the acquisition of Engility Holdings, Inc. (collectively with its consolidated subsidiaries, "Engility").
The acquisition of Engility accelerates the execution of our long-term strategy to be the premier technology integrator in the government services market and deliver sustained profitable growth.
The acquisition of Engility strengthens the execution of our long-term strategy by: (1) combining two leading government service providers with highly complementary capabilities, customers, and cultures; (2) accelerating both companies' long-term strategies, creating sub-segment scale in strategic business areas of national interest; and (3) enhancing shareholder value through improved cash flow and margin profile driven by cost synergies and increased growth from greater customer access with more competitive and differentiated solutions.
Management of Operating Performance and Reporting



Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements.
These managers carefully monitor contract margin performance by constantly evaluating contract risks and opportunities.
Through each contract's life cycle, program managers review performance and update contract performance estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
We also analyze our cost mix (labor, subcontractor or materials) in order to understand operating margin because programs with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable.
-20-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Results of Operations



The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenues, operating income, and cash flows from operating activities.
Revenues increased $440 million or 37.4% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to the acquisition of Engility.
Excluding acquired revenues, revenues contracted 2.8%, attributable to humanitarian relief materials in the prior year quarter and the effect of acquisition related revenue dis-synergies.
Cost of Revenues.
Cost of revenues increased $361 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 91.4% in the prior year quarter to 88.9%, driven by cost synergies as a result of the acquisition of Engility and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($13 million).
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
SG&A increased $42 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Engility ($23 million) and related intangible asset amortization ($20 million).
Operating Income.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 5.8% for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased from 5.6% in the comparable prior year period, due to the acquisition of Engility, cost synergies related to the acquisition, and improved performance across our portfolio, partially offset by higher costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility.
Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders.
Net income attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased $6 million as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to increased operating income ($24 million, net of tax), partially offset by higher interest expense and a higher effective tax rate.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $178 million for the three months ended May 3, 2019, an increase of $90 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to customer collections recouped from the U.S. federal government partial shutdown that occurred in the prior quarter, strong customer collections across several programs, and cash provided from the operating activities of Engility.
Non-GAAP Measures



EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income attributable to common stockholders and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization.
Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding acquisition and integration costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance.
The acquisition and integration costs relate to the Company's significant acquisition of Engility.
Other companies may define similar measures differently.
EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented were calculated as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Adjustment to reflect the portion of acquisition and integration costs recovered through the Company's indirect rates in accordance with Cost Accounting Standards.
Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased to 8.3% of revenues from 6.5% of revenues for the prior year driven by the acquisition of Engility, cost synergies related to the acquisition and improved performance across our portfolio including higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time.
Net Bookings and Backlog.
Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts.
We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Given that much of our revenue is derived from IDIQ contract task orders that renew annually, bookings on these contracts tend to refresh annually as the task orders are renewed.
Additionally, we do not include in backlog contract awards that are under protest until the protest is resolved in our favor.
-22-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows:



•Funded Backlog.
Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years.
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
•Negotiated Unfunded Backlog.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
We expect to recognize revenue from a substantial portion of our funded backlog within the next twelve months.
However, the U.S. government can adjust the scope of services of or cancel contracts at any time.
Similarly, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel prior to contract completion.
The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates presented was:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We had net bookings worth an estimated $1.4 billion during the three months ended May 3, 2019.
Total backlog at the end of the first quarter is consistent with our total backlog at prior year end.
Contract Types.
For a discussion of the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see “Contract Types” in Part I of the most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our contract mix for the three months ended May 3, 2019 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due the acquisition of Engility, which historically had a higher proportion of cost reimbursement type contracts, and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.
-23-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Cost of Revenues Mix.
We generate revenues by providing a customized mix of services to our customers.
Contracts performed with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable.
The following table presents changes in cost mix for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cost of revenues mix for the three months ended May 3, 2019 reflects an increase in labor-related content due to the acquisition of Engility which historically had a higher proportion of such costs.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



As a services provider, our business generally requires minimal infrastructure investment.
We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $400 million Revolving Credit Facility.
We anticipate that our future cash needs will be for working capital, capital expenditures, and contractual and other commitments.
We consider various financial measures when we develop and update our capital deployment strategy, which includes evaluating cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow and financial leverage.
When our cash generation enables us to exceed our target average minimum cash balance, we intend to deploy excess cash through dividends, share repurchases, debt prepayments or strategic acquisitions.
Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.
Historical Cash Flow Trends



The following table summarizes our cash flows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities.
Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the three months ended May 3, 2019 and the comparable prior year period.
-24-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Net Cash Used in Investing Activities.
Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased compared to the prior year period due to purchases of marketable securities.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities.
Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended May 3, 2019 increased compared to the prior year period primarily due to $150 million of voluntary principal prepayments on the Term Loan A Facility and an increase in dividend payments to stockholders.
Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
There have been no changes to our existing critical accounting policies, other than our accounting policy on leases, during the three months ended May 3, 2019 from those disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K. We revised our accounting policy on leases in conjunction with our adoption of Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-02.
See Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



For information on recently issued but not yet adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
