PART II—OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings



We have provided information about legal proceedings in which we are involved in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have provided an update to this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 10 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.”



Item 1A.
These risks and the other risks associated with the pending merger are more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus included in the registration statement on Form S-4 (the “Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus”), dated as of December 4, 2018, that was filed with the SEC in connection with the merger.
We urge you to read the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus because it contains important information about the pending merger, including relevant risk factors.
On September 9, 2018, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Engility to acquire all of Engility’s issued and outstanding stock through a merger of Engility with one of our subsidiaries, Raptors Merger Sub, Inc. (the “merger”).
Consummation of the merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the approval of stockholders of both SAIC and Engility and the receipt of required regulatory approvals.
If any condition to the merger is not satisfied or waived, the merger will not be completed.
The parties also may terminate the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances.
Any or all of the preceding could jeopardize our ability to consummate the merger on the negotiated terms.
Additional risks and uncertainties associated with the merger include:



•various conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied or waived;



•the inability to obtain consents from third parties who have “change of control” or similar clauses in their agreements with Engility;



•the failure to consummate the merger may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community;



•litigation relating to the merger could be commenced, which may prevent the merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame, if at all;



•required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause the abandonment of the merger; and



•the attention of our employees and management may be diverted due to activities related to the merger, which may harm our relationships with our employees, customers, distributors, suppliers, and other business partners, may impair our ability to continuously innovate to meet the industry inflections, and may result in a loss of or a substantial decrease in purchases by our customers.
Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, on a large extent, on our ability to integrate our and Engility’s business.
The merger involves the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies.
The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices with those of Engility.
Potential difficulties that the combined company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:



•the inability to successfully combine our business with Engility in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger;



•the loss of customers and strategic partners who may not wish to continue their relationships with the combined company;



•required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may result in limitations, additional costs or placement of restrictions on the conduct of the combined company, imposition of additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger;



•complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other business partners; and



•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Furthermore, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses.
In addition, we have operated and, until the completion of the merger will continue to operate, independently.
These and other factors could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other partners, and our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger.
The exchange ratio will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either the Company or Engility stock price.
In the merger, each outstanding share of Engility common stock (with certain exceptions), by virtue of the merger and without any action on the part of the parties to the Merger Agreement or the holders of shares of Engility common stock, will be converted into the right to receive 0.450 validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of SAIC common stock.
Changes in the price of SAIC common stock prior to completion of the merger will affect the market value of the SAIC common stock that stockholders will receive in the merger.
As a result, the market value of the merger consideration may also vary.
-33-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



We and Engility will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger.
We and Engility will incur substantial expenses in connection with and as a result of completing the merger and, over a period of time following the completion of the merger, we further expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating our businesses, operations, policies and procedures and Engility’s.
Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds



Purchases of Equity Securities.
We may repurchase shares on the open market in accordance with established repurchase plans.
We also repurchase shares in connection with stock option and stock award activities to satisfy tax withholding obligations.
The following table presents repurchases of our common stock during the three months ended November 2, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Date ranges represent our fiscal periods during the current quarter.
Our fiscal quarters typically consist of one five-week period and two four-week periods.
(2) Includes shares purchased on surrender by stockholders of previously owned shares to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations related to stock option exercises and vesting of stock awards in addition to shares purchased under our publicly announced plans or programs.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities



No information is required in response to this item.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures



No information is required in response to this item.
Item 5.
Other Information



No information is required in response to this item.
-34-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Item 6.
Exhibits



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



-35-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
