Item 2.
We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
-21-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



The Company utilizes a 52/53 week fiscal year, ending on the Friday closest to January 31, with fiscal quarters typically consisting of 13 weeks.
Fiscal 2018 began on February 4, 2017 and ended on February 2, 2018, while fiscal 2019 began on February 3, 2018 and ends on February 1, 2019.



Business Overview



We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 45 years.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
Our long history of serving the U.S. government has afforded us the ability to develop strong and longstanding relationships with some of the largest customers in the markets we serve.
Pending Acquisition of Engility



On September 9, 2018, we entered into the Merger Agreement by and among SAIC, Engility Holdings, Inc. ("Engility"), and Raptors Merger Sub, Inc., pursuant to which we will acquire Engility (the “Merger”).
The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility to be funded in connection with the Merger, see Note 7 to the Condensed and Consolidated Financial Statements.
The proceeds will be used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes.
The estimated transaction value is $2.1 billion based on the Company's per share closing price of $69.39 on November 2, 2018 including the repayment of Engility's net debt.
The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies' Board of Directors.
The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval of both the Science Applications International Corporation and Engility stockholders, and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019.
Economic Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks



In fiscal 2018, we generated greater than 95% of our revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, including subcontracts on which we perform.
Our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government.
An omnibus appropriations measure increased discretionary federal spending by $143 billion above previous spending caps for government fiscal year (GFY) 2018, providing additional business opportunities for the Company.
A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019.
Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns and issues related to required increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (under current law, the debt ceiling will be reached in March 2019).
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex mission-critical contracts.
SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers.
In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
Our solutions, inspired through innovation, are based on best practices and technology transfer.
Our past performance was achieved by employee dedication and customer focus.
Restructuring



During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth.
Management's restructuring activities included involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities.
Management completed the Restructuring in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Refer to "Results of Operations" below, and "Restructuring" in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
These financial targets include:



•low single digit annual revenue growth percentage,



•adjusted EBITDA margin expansion of 10 to 20 basis points annually, and



•return of capital in excess of operating needs.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure described in more detail in “Non-GAAP Measures” below.
Our business and program management process is directed by professional managers focused on satisfying our customers by providing high quality services in achieving program requirements.
These managers carefully monitor performance by constantly evaluating risks and opportunities.
Through each program life cycle, managers review performance and update estimates to reflect their understanding of the best information available.
For performance obligations satisfied over time, updates to estimates are recognized on inception-to-date activity, during the period of adjustment, resulting in either a favorable or unfavorable impact to operating income.
We also analyze our cost mix (labor, subcontractor or materials) in order to understand operating margin because programs with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable.
-23-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Results of Operations



The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenues, operating income, and cash flows from operating activities.
Revenues increased $32 million or 2.8% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to newly awarded contracts ($54 million), which includes information technology (IT) integration contracts supporting state and local customers, and increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($24 million).
These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts and other net decreases across our portfolio ($46 million).
Revenues increased $141 million or 4.2% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year due to revenue on new contracts primarily supporting NASA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state and local customers ($128 million), as well as increased orders in our supply chain portfolio ($120 million).
These increases were partially offset by completion of contracts ($72 million) and other net decreases across our portfolio ($35 million).
Cost of Revenues.
Cost of revenues increased $12 million for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.5% in the prior year quarter to 89.0%, driven by improved performance across our portfolio ($28 million), inclusive of newly awarded contracts, and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($14 million).
These improvements were partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision ($25 million).
Cost of revenues increased $103 million for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in revenue volume.
Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90.9% in the prior year period to 90.1%, driven by improved contract performance to include the effect of our restructuring efforts in fiscal 2018 ($35 million), and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time ($15 million).
These improvements were partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision ($25 million).
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
SG&A increased $5 million for the three months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher employee-related and consulting costs.
SG&A increased $5 million for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher employee-related and consulting costs.
In fiscal 2018, we realized a gain from the reversal of a vacancy reserve ($7 million), and in fiscal 2019 we settled claims against the indemnification escrow balance established when Scitor was acquired ($6 million).
-24-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Operating Income.
Operating income as a percentage of revenues of 6.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2018 was consistent with 6.3% in the comparable prior year period, due to improved performance across our portfolio, higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, offset by an increase in our inventory provision and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility ($14 million).
Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 6.1% for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 from 5.8% in the comparable prior year period primarily due to improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision and costs associated with the acquisition and integration of Engility ($14 million).
Net Income.
Net income for the three months ended November 2, 2018 increased $5 million as compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by expenses associated with the debt refinancing activities in the current quarter.
Net income for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 increased $18 million as compared to the same period in the prior year due to higher operating income and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by expenses associated with the debt refinancing activities in the current year.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $162 million for the nine months ended November 2, 2018, an increase of $29 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher customer collections and lower payments for income taxes, which was partially offset by an increase in working capital investments in platform integration programs.
Non-GAAP Measures



EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is a non-GAAP financial performance measure that is calculated by taking net income and excluding interest, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization.
Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by taking EBITDA and excluding restructuring and acquisition and integration costs that we do not consider to be indicative of our ongoing operating performance.
The acquisition and integration costs relate to the Company's pending significant acquisition of Engility.
The restructuring costs relate to the Company's plan in fiscal 2018 to restructure certain aspects of its operations and is the only significant restructuring since we began operating as an independent company five years ago.
Other companies may define similar measures differently.
-25-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented were calculated as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended November 2, 2018 increased to 8.3% of revenues from 7.4% of revenues for the prior year driven by improved performance across our portfolio and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision.
Adjusted EBITDA for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 increased to 7.4% of revenues from 6.9% of revenues for the prior year, driven by improved performance across our portfolio and the realization of cost efficiencies resulting from our restructuring activities in fiscal 2018, and higher net favorable changes in estimates related to performance obligations satisfied over time, partially offset by an increase in our inventory provision.
Net Bookings and Backlog.
Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenues to be earned in the future from funded and negotiated unfunded contract awards that were received during the period, net of adjustments to estimates on previously awarded contracts.
We calculate net bookings as the period’s ending backlog plus the period’s revenues less the prior period’s ending backlog and initial backlog obtained through acquisitions.
Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts as work is performed.
We do not include in backlog estimates of revenues to be derived from IDIQ contracts, but rather record backlog and bookings when task orders are awarded on these contracts.
Given that much of our revenue is derived from IDIQ contract task orders that renew annually, bookings on these contracts tend to refresh annually as the task orders are renewed.
Additionally, we do not include in backlog contract awards that are under protest until the protest is resolved in our favor.
We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows:



•Funded Backlog.
Funded backlog for contracts with government agencies primarily represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
It does not include the unfunded portion of contracts in which funding is incrementally appropriated or authorized on a quarterly or annual basis by the U.S. government and other customers even though the contract may call for performance over a number of years.
Funded backlog for contracts with non-government customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on these contracts.
-26-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



•Negotiated Unfunded Backlog.
Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from negotiated contracts for which funding has not been appropriated or otherwise authorized and from unexercised priced contract options.
Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include any estimate of future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedules or other master agreement contract vehicles.
We expect to recognize revenue from a substantial portion of our funded backlog within the next twelve months.
However, the U.S. government can adjust the scope of services of or cancel contracts at any time.
Similarly, certain contracts with commercial customers include provisions that allow the customer to cancel prior to contract completion.
The estimated value of our total backlog as of the dates presented was:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



We had net bookings worth an estimated $1.2 billion and $3.7 billion during the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018, respectively.
Total backlog at the end of the third quarter is consistent with our total backlog at prior year end.
Contract Types.
For a discussion of the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see “Contract Types” in Part I of the most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The following table summarizes revenues by contract type as a percentage of revenues for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our contract mix for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 reflects an increase in cost reimbursement type contracts due to newly awarded contracts supporting federal civilian agencies and a change in contract type on a significant contract supporting the Department of Defense.
-27-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Cost of Revenues Mix.
We generate revenues by providing a customized mix of services to our customers.
Contracts performed with a higher proportion of SAIC labor are generally more profitable.
The following table presents changes in cost mix for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cost of revenues mix for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2018 reflects an increase in supply chain material content.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



As a services provider, our business generally requires minimal infrastructure investment.
We expect to fund our ongoing working capital, commitments and any other discretionary investments with cash on hand, future operating cash flows and, if needed, borrowings under our $200 million Revolving Credit Facility.
We anticipate that our future cash needs will be for working capital, capital expenditures, and contractual and other commitments.
We consider various financial measures when we develop and update our capital deployment strategy, which includes evaluating cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow and financial leverage.
When our cash generation enables us to exceed our target average minimum cash balance of $150 million, we intend to deploy excess cash through dividends, share repurchases, debt prepayments or strategic acquisitions.
In connection with the Merger Agreement, we expect to assume approximately $900 million of Engility's debt.
The Company amended its credit agreement to provide for a new five-year senior secured $1.1 billion term loan facility to be funded in connection with the Merger, see Note 7 to the Condensed and Consolidated Financial Statements.
The proceeds will be used to repay Engility's existing credit facility and outstanding notes.
In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility will increase by an additional $200 million upon effectiveness of the Merger.
Nevertheless, we believe that our existing cash on hand, generation of future operating cash flows, and access to bank financing and capital markets will provide adequate resources to meet our short-term liquidity and long-term capital needs.
-28-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Historical Cash Flow Trends



The following table summarizes our cash flows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities.
Refer to “Results of Operations” above for a discussion of the changes in cash provided by operating activities between the nine months ended November 2, 2018 and the comparable prior year period.
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities.
Cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 increased compared to the prior year period due to higher capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment.
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities.
Cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended November 2, 2018 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily due to an increase in proceeds from borrowings and a decrease in stock repurchased and retired or withheld for taxes on equity awards, partially offset by an increase in principal payments on borrowings and debt issuance costs.
Contractual Obligations



We previously entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of our Assault Amphibious Vehicle (AAV) contract with the United States Marine Corps.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded.
On August 27, 2018, we received a stop-work order from the Marine Corps on the AAV contract and on October 3, 2018 we received a termination for convenience.
Beginning in fiscal 2018, the Company entered into contracts with various vendors for long-lead time materials that would be necessary to complete the low-rate initial production (LRIP) phase of the program, including portions of the LRIP phase which had not yet been awarded.
As a result of the program termination, the Company recognized an inventory provision for long-lead items, see Note 1 of the Notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements.
Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis.
Typically, the circumstances that make these judgments difficult, subjective and complex have to do with making estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
-29-

SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



Revenue Recognition.
We evaluate the nature of the contract and the services provided when determining the accounting method utilized for each contract.
We provide for anticipated losses on long-term production type contracts and service contracts with the U.S. government by recording an expense for the total expected contract loss during the period when the loss is determined.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts (including allocated indirect costs) are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations with government representatives.
Revenues on U.S. government contracts have been recorded in amounts that are expected to be realized on final settlement.
Many of our contracts include forms of variable consideration such as reimbursable costs, award and incentive fees, usage-based pricing, service-level penalties, performance bonuses, and other provisions that can either increase or decrease the transaction price.
At contract inception, we estimate the transaction price and may include variable consideration in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved.
Other than the item described above, there have been no changes to our existing critical accounting policies during the nine months ended November 2, 2018 from those disclosed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Recently Issued But Not Yet Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



For information on recently issued but not yet adopted accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report.
