PART II – OTHER INFORMATION 



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings 



The information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved as set forth in Note 9 – Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q) is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors 



The following disclosure modifies the discussion of risks and uncertainties previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
We derive our revenues from the delivery of products and services to clients primarily in the financial services and healthcare industries.
While the U.S. economy may technically have come out of the recession, the recovery is fragile and may not be sustainable for any specific period of time, and the economy could slip back into an even more significant recession.
Our clients include a range of organizations in the financial services industry whose success is linked to the health of the economy generally and of the financial markets specifically.
Unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions, economic instability or economic downturns could: (i) cause our clients or prospective clients to cancel, reduce or delay planned expenditures for our products  



28 



and services; (ii) impair our clients’ ability to pay for products they have purchased; or (iii) cause our clients to process fewer transactions through our software-enabled services, renegotiate their contracts with us, move their IT solutions in-house, switch to lower-priced solutions offered by our competitors or exit the industry.
Fluctuations in the value of assets under our clients’ management could also adversely affect our revenues because pricing in many of our agreements is adjusted based on assets under management.
In addition, any other events that adversely affect our clients’ businesses, rates of growth or numbers of clients they serve could decrease demand for our products and services and the number of transactions we process.
We also may invest in technology or infrastructure for specific clients and not realize additional revenue from such investments.
If trends or events do not occur as we expect, our business could be negatively impacted.
We have acquired and intend in the future to acquire companies, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities.
For example, on April 16, 2018 we consummated our previously announced acquisition of DST.
However, acquisitions could subject us to contingent or unknown liabilities, and we may have to incur debt or severance liabilities or write off investments, infrastructure costs or other assets.
Our success is also dependent on our ability to complete the integration of the operations of acquired businesses in an efficient and effective manner, which may be difficult to accomplish in the rapidly changing financial services software and services industry.
We may not realize the benefits we anticipate from acquisitions, such as lower costs, increased revenues, synergies and growth opportunities, or we may realize such benefits more slowly than anticipated, due to our inability to: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The process of integrating the operations of acquired companies could disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Acquisitions may also place a significant strain on our administrative, operational, financial and other resources.
See also “-Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.” 



Consolidations or failures among our clients or within their respective industries could adversely affect us by causing a decline in demand for our products and services.
If banks and financial services firms fail or consolidate or if there are failures or consolidation in any of the other industries in which our clients operate including healthcare, there could be a decline in the demand for our products and services.
Further, if our clients fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our products and services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our products and services.
It is also possible that the larger financial institutions or other entities resulting from mergers or consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us.
In addition, these larger financial institutions or other entities could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide or to consolidate their processing on a non-SS&C system.
As a result of our acquisitions of DST in April 2018, CommonWealth Fund Services Ltd. (“CommonWealth”) in October 2017, Conifer Financial Services (“Conifer”) and Wells Fargo’s Global Fund Services business (“GFS”) in December 2016, Citigroup Alternative Investor Services business (“Citigroup AIS”) in March 2016, Advent Software, Inc. (“Advent”) in July 2015 and GlobeOp Financial Services S.A. (“GlobeOp”) in May 2012, a higher percentage of our clients are hedge funds or funds of hedge funds.
We derive significant revenues from asset management, administration and distribution contracts with such clients.
Under these contracts, the fees paid to us are based on a variety of factors, including the market value of assets under management, assets under administration and number of transactions processed.
Assets under management, assets under administration or the number of transactions processed may decline for various reasons, causing results to vary.
Factors that could decrease assets under management and assets under administration (and therefore revenues) include declines in the market value of the assets in the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifts among, the funds (and accounts as applicable) managed, administered and distributed, as well as market conditions generally.
These clients and our business relating to them are affected by trends, developments and risks associated with the global hedge fund industry.
In addition, the market environment for hedge funds involves risk and has suffered significant turmoil, including as a result of substantial changes in global economies, political uncertainty, stock market declines and new regulatory initiatives.
Even in the absence of such factors, the global hedge fund industry is subject to fluctuations in assets under management that are impossible to predict or anticipate.
Further, investor demand for hedge funds has experienced recent declines and increased withdrawals as a result of poor performance relative to benchmark indices and increased negative investor sentiment on fees.
In addition, market forces have negatively impacted liquidity for many of the financial instruments in which hedge fund client’s trade, which, in turn, could negatively impact our ability to access independent pricing sources for valuing those instruments.
Our revenues may decrease due to declines in the levels of participation and activity in the securities markets.
We generate significant revenues from the transaction processing fees we earn for our products and services.
These revenue sources are substantially dependent on the levels of participation and activity in the securities markets.
The number of unique securities positions held by investors through our clients and our clients’ customer trading volumes reflect the levels of participation and activity in the markets, which are impacted by market prices and the liquidity of the securities markets, among other factors.
We could continue to be negatively impacted by the volatile markets as certain of our fees are tied to the asset bases of our clients.
Additionally, we may be exposed to operational or other risks in connection with any systematic failures in the markets, or the default due to market-related failures of one or more counterparties with whom we transact.
If we are unable to keep existing clients satisfied, sell additional products and services to existing clients or attract new clients, then our revenues and net income would remain stagnant or decline.
30 



In the financial and healthcare markets we serve, we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products or services offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and other intermediary relationships, quality of service, and level of fees charged for products and services.
The market for financial and healthcare services software and services is competitive, rapidly evolving and highly sensitive to new product and service introductions and marketing efforts by industry participants.
The markets we serve are also highly fragmented and served by numerous firms that target only local markets or specific client types.
We also face competition from information systems developed and serviced internally by the IT departments of financial services firms.
Some of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, distribution and marketing resources, generate higher revenues and have greater name recognition.
It is also possible that our competitors may enter into alliances with each other or other third-parties, and through such alliances, acquire increased market share.
Our role as a fund administrator has in the past, and may in the future, expose us to claims and litigation from clients, their investors, regulators or other third-parties.
As a service provider, we have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims and lawsuits from investors, regulators, liquidators, other third-parties and our clients, some of which pursue high-risk investment strategies and all of which are subject to substantial market risk, in the event that the underlying fund suffers investment losses, incurs instances of fraud, becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy or otherwise becomes defunct.
An increase in subaccounting services performed by brokerage firms has and will continue to adversely impact our revenues.
We service open-end and closed-end funds registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, including mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, interval funds and exchange-listed closed-end funds, as well as private funds, collective investment trusts and other accounts under shareowner recordkeeping arrangements which we refer to as registered accounts.
These arrangements are distinguished from broker subaccounts, which are serviced under contract with a broker/dealer.
Our clients may adopt the broker subaccount structure.
We offer subaccounting services to brokerage firms that perform shareowner subaccounting.
As the recordkeeping functions in connection with subaccounting are more limited than traditional shareowner accounting, the fees charged are generally lower on a per unit basis.
Brokerage firms that obtain agreements from our clients to use a broker subaccount structure cause accounts currently on our traditional recordkeeping system to convert to our subaccounting system, or to the subaccounting systems of other service providers, which generally results in lower revenues.
While subaccounting conversions have generally been limited to our non tax-advantaged mutual fund accounts, such conversions have begun to extend to the tax-advantaged accounts (such as retirement and Section 529 accounts) we service, which could adversely affect our business and operating results.
Catastrophic events may adversely affect our business.
A war, terrorist attack, natural disaster, pandemic or other catastrophe may adversely affect our business.
The potential for a direct effect on our business operations is due primarily to our significant investment in infrastructure.
Although we maintain redundant facilities and have contingency plans in place to protect against both man-made and natural threats, it is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes.
A computer virus, physical or cyber security breach, criminal act, military action, power or communication failure, flood, severe storm or the like could lead to service interruptions and data losses for clients, disruptions to our operations, or damage to important facilities.
In addition, such an event may cause clients to cancel their agreements with us for our products or services.
Our software-enabled services maintain and process confidential data and process trades and perform other back-office functions, including wiring funds, on behalf of our clients, some of which is critical to their business operations.
For example, our trading systems maintain account and trading information for our clients and their customers.
Such events include IT attacks or failures, threats to physical security, sudden increases in transaction volumes, electrical or telecommunications outages, damaging weather or other acts of nature, or employee or contractor error or malfeasance.
In particular, cybersecurity threats have become prevalent in our industry as well as for many firms that process information.
Cybersecurity threats are evolving and our security measures, and those of our service providers, may not detect or prevent all attempts to hack our systems, denial-of-service attacks, viruses, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, phishing attacks, social engineering, security breaches or employee or contractor malfeasance and other electronic security breaches that may jeopardize the security of information stored in or transmitted by our sites, networks and systems or that we or our third-party service providers otherwise maintain.
Such cyber security incidents could lead to disruptions in our systems, the unauthorized release or destruction of our or our clients’ or other parties’ confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data.
We and our service providers may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent all types of attacks, and techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers.
In the last few years there have been many successful advanced cyber-attacks that have damaged several prominent companies in spite of strong information security measures, and we expect that the risks associated with cyber-attacks and the costs of preventing such attacks will continue to increase in the future.
We and our clients are regularly the target of attempted cyber-attacks and we must continuously monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption.
Although we expend significant resources and oversight efforts in an attempt to ensure that we maintain appropriate safeguards with respect to cyber-attacks, there is no guarantee that our systems and procedures are adequate to protect against all security breaches.
If our software-enabled services are disrupted or fail for any reason, or if our systems or facilities are infiltrated or damaged by unauthorized persons, we and our clients could experience data loss, including confidential and personal information, financial loss, harm to their reputation and significant business interruption.
Although we maintain privacy, data breach and network security liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate or cover liabilities actually incurred, or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all.
In providing our software-enabled services to our customers, we depend upon IT infrastructure that is primarily managed by our firm, but we also depend on third-party service providers to provide some of the IT infrastructure on which we rely.
Although we seek to ensure that appropriate security and other standards are maintained by these third-parties, these third-parties are also subject to the risks discussed in the preceding risk factor, and there is no guarantee that they will maintain systems and procedures sufficient to protect against system failures and security breaches, including as a result of cyber-attacks.
In addition, the third-parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries, are susceptible to the risks described in the preceding risk factor (including regarding the third-parties with which they are similarly interconnected), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom they are interconnected or conduct business.
We have substantial operations and a significant number of employees in India and we are therefore subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India.
We currently have approximately 4,038 employees located in India.
The economy of India may differ favorably or unfavorably from the U.S. economy and our business may be adversely affected by the general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies.
In particular, in recent years, India’s government has adopted policies that are designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriations.
These policies may not continue.
In addition, we are subject to risks relating to social stability, political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future.
India faces major challenges in the years ahead sustaining the economic growth that it has experienced over the past several years.
These challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education.
Historically, our revenues, profit margins and other operating results have fluctuated from period to period and over time primarily due to the timing, size and nature of our license and service transactions.
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion on fluctuations in revenues, profit margins and other operating results.
Additional factors that may lead to such fluctuation include: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We are dependent on our senior management and their continued performance and productivity.
We are dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management.
The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business, jeopardize existing customer relationships, impair our compliance efforts as a public company, and have a material adverse effect on our business objectives.
We do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any senior officer or manager.
If we cannot attract, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to provide adequate technical expertise and customer service to our clients.
We believe that our success is due in part to our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees.
Competition for qualified personnel in the software and hedge fund industries is intense, and we have, at times, found it difficult to attract and retain skilled personnel for our operations.
Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information.
We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, and nondisclosure agreements, license agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary technology and other confidential information.
We have registered trademarks for some of our products and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate.
We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients.
However, these efforts may be insufficient to prevent those parties or others from infringing, misappropriating, violating or asserting rights in our intellectual property, confidential information or other technology and our proprietary technology and confidential information may be subject to embezzlement, theft, or other similar illegal behavior by our employees or third-parties.
In addition, our employees, distributors, clients and potential clients may breach our confidentiality agreements and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach.
Furthermore, it may be possible for unauthorized third-parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information.
Existing patent and copyright laws afford only limited protection.
We incorporate open source software into a limited number of our software products.
We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to unfavorable conditions or conditions we do not intend.
Some open source licenses require that source code subject to the license be disclosed to third-parties, grant such third-parties the right to modify and redistribute that source code and a requirement that the source code for any software derived from it be disclosed.
If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public.
As a result, the potential impact of these terms is uncertain and may result in unanticipated obligations or restrictions regarding those of our products, technologies or solutions affected.
We have acquired and may acquire important technology rights through our acquisitions and have often incorporated and may incorporate features of these technologies across many of our products and services.
Indemnification and other rights under applicable acquisition documents are limited in term and scope and therefore provide us with only limited protection.
In addition, we rely on third-party software in providing some of our products and services.
We may be unable to adapt to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements.
Rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements and new product and service introductions characterize the market for our products and services.
Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our existing products and services and to develop and introduce new products and services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing client needs.
The process of developing our software products is complex and is expected to become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems and  



34 



technologies.
Current areas of significant technological change include mobility, cloud-based computing and the processing and analyzing of large amounts of data.
Undetected software design defects, errors or failures, or employee errors, may result in defects, delays, loss of our clients’ data, litigation against us and harm to our reputation and business.
Our software products are highly complex and sophisticated and could contain design defects or software errors that are difficult to detect and correct.
Errors or bugs in our software may affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, result in the loss of client data, damage our reputation, affect market acceptance of our products or result in the rejection of our products by the market, cause loss of revenues, divert development resources, increase product liability and warranty claims, and increase service and support costs.
We cannot be certain that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not be found in new products or new versions of products.
Moreover, our clients engage in complex trading activities and this complexity increases the likelihood that our employees may make errors.
Employee errors, poor employee performance or misconduct may be difficult to detect and deter.
These product defects or errors in the product operations, or employee errors, poor performance or misconduct, could cause damages to our clients for which they may assert claims or lawsuits against us.
Because our platform could be used to collect and store personal information of our customers’ employees or customers, privacy concerns could result in additional cost and liability to us or inhibit use of our platform.
Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the U.S. and in many other countries where we offer our solutions or may offer them in the future.
The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently evolving, is not uniform and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future.
Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, disclosure, control, security and deletion of personal information.
In the U.S., these include, without limitation, laws and regulations promulgated by states, as well as rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and federal financial regulatory bodies.
Internationally, most of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal frameworks, many of which are broader in scope, more restrictive and impose greater obligations on us and our customers.
For instance, effective May 2018, the European Union’s (“E.U.”) General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), a new E.U.-wide legal framework to govern data collection use and sharing and related consumer privacy rights, will strengthen and unify data protection rules for individuals within the E.U.
The GDPR also addresses export of personal data outside the E.U.
Many of these obligations are updated frequently and subject to interpretation by various regulatory bodies and thus require ongoing monitoring.
In addition to government regulation, privacy advocacy and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us.
As a result of uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection-related laws, regulations, and self-regulatory requirements, it is possible that these laws, regulations, and requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data handling practices or the technological features of our solutions.
Any inability to adequately address privacy or data protection-related concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection-related laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business.
35 



Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, standards and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our solutions.
Also, privacy concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our solutions, particularly in foreign countries.
Our proprietary applications and related consulting and other services include the processing or clearing of financial and healthcare transactions for our clients and their customers and the design of benefit plans and compliance programs.
The dollar amount of transactions processed or cleared is vastly higher than the revenues we derive from providing these services.
In the event we make transaction processing or operational errors, or mismanage any process, we could be exposed to claims for any resulting processing delays, disclosure of protected information, miscalculations, mishandling of pass-through disbursements or other processes, and failure to follow a client’s instructions or meet specifications.
Additionally, we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from a failure of third parties (including regulatory authorities) to recognize the limitations of our role as our clients’ agent or consultant, and we may be subject to claims or liability resulting from fraud committed by third parties.
We may be exposed to the risk of counterparty breaches or failure to perform.
We may be subject to claims, including class actions, for reimbursements, losses or damages arising from any transaction processing or operational error, or from process mismanagement.
Because of the sensitive nature of the financial and healthcare transactions we process, our liability and any alleged damages may significantly exceed the fees we receive for performing the service at issue.
Litigation could include class action claims based upon, among other theories, various regulatory requirements and consumer protection and privacy laws that class action plaintiffs may attempt to use to assert private rights of action.
Investment decisions with respect to cash balances, market returns or losses on investments, and limits on insurance applicable to cash balances held in bank and brokerage accounts, including those held by us and as agent on behalf of our clients, could expose us to losses of such cash balances and adversely affect revenues attributable to cash balance deposit investments.
As part of our transaction processing and other services, we maintain and manage large bank and investment accounts containing client funds, which we hold as agent, as well as operational funds.
Our revenues include investment earnings related to client fund cash balances.
Our choices in selecting investments, or market conditions that affect the rate of return on or the availability of investments, could have an adverse effect on the level of such revenues.
The amounts held in our operational and client deposit accounts could exceed the limits of government insurance programs of organizations such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities Investors Protection Corporation, exposing us to the risk of loss.
Our business is subject to evolving regulations and increased scrutiny from regulators.
Our business is subject to evolving and increasing U.S. and foreign regulation, including privacy, licensing, processing, recordkeeping, investment adviser, broker/dealer, retirement, data protection, reporting and related regulations.
New products and services we plan to offer may also be subject to regulation, either directly or as a downstream provider to customers or clients.
Such regulations cover all aspects of our business including, but not limited to, sales and trading methods, trade practices among broker/dealers, use and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, use of client and employee data, capital structure of securities firms, net capital, anti-money laundering efforts, healthcare, recordkeeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.
Our clients are subject to extensive regulation, including investment adviser, broker/dealer and privacy regulations applicable to products and services we provide to the financial services industry and insurance, privacy and other regulations applicable to services we provide to the healthcare industry.
As a result, our relationships with our clients may subject us to increased scrutiny from a number of regulators, including the Bermuda Monetary Authority, British Virgin Islands Financial Services Commission, Centrale Bank van Curacao en Sint Maarten, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, FTC, Cayman Islands Monetary Authority, Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Financial Conduct Authority, Central Bank of Ireland, National Futures Association, Ontario Securities Commission, SEC, Securities Commission of the Bahamas, U.S. Treasury Department and other government entities that regulate the financial services, hedge fund and hedge fund services industry in the U.S., the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and the other jurisdictions in which we operate.
As a result of the changes in the global economy and the turmoil in global financial markets in recent years, the risk of additional government regulation has increased.
In addition, the final outcome of negotiations between the U.K. and the E.U.
with respect to the U.K.’s exit from the E.U.
is uncertain.
As a result, the impact of the U.K.’s exit on the U.K. regulatory regime is unknown, but it is possible that we will become subject to more onerous regulations in the U.K. as a result.
Moreover, our healthcare business is subject to evolving and increasing federal and state regulation.
Such federal regulation is developed, interpreted or enforced by regulators including, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the U.S. Dept.
of Health and Human Services, the Office for Civil Rights and the Office of the Inspector General.
36 



Typically a state’s department of insurance regulates much of our healthcare business; however, each state’s statutes dictate such authority.
Any of these regulations may limit or curtail our activities, including activities that might be profitable, and changes to existing regulations, or the interpretations thereof, may affect our ability to continue to offer our existing products and services, or to offer products and services we may wish to offer in the future.
The European Union’s AIFMD and the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, among other initiatives, pose significant changes to the regulatory environment in which we and our clients operate.
The impact of these regulatory changes remains uncertain.
If we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines or other sanctions, including revocation of our licenses and/or registrations with various regulatory agencies, criminal penalties and civil lawsuits.
The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions, including the U.K.
Bribery Act (“Bribery Act”), generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other commercial advantage.
The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of “off books” slush funds from which such improper payments can be made.
We and our clients operate in a number of jurisdictions that may pose a risk of potential FCPA or Bribery Act violations.
Changes in, and any violation by our clients of, applicable laws and regulations (whether related to the products and services we provide or otherwise) could diminish their business or financial condition and thus their demand for our products and services or could increase our cost of continuing to provide our products and services to such industries.
Demand could also decrease if we do not continue to offer products and services that help our clients comply with regulations.
For example, our accounts in the healthcare industry are impacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the “Affordable Care Act”), including the Health Insurance Marketplace.
Changes to the Affordable Care Act may be enacted by Congress in response to the current administration’s stated agenda, and we cannot predict the impact that will have on our clients and their demand for our products and services.
In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our internal operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.
The Tax Act, among other things, reduces the U.S. federal statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest and executive compensation, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, puts into effect the migration from a “worldwide” system of taxation to a territorial system, established a new base erosion tax that is imposed in relation to certain payments made to foreign affiliates (the “Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax”) and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits.
We recorded a net benefit to income tax expense of $88 million in 2017 related to the enactment of the Tax Act, which includes the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the corporate tax rate reduction, the one-time transition tax imposed on accumulated foreign earnings and deferred taxes provided for the global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) minimum tax that took effect January 1, 2018.
The SEC Staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (“SAB 118”) to provide guidance to companies on how to implement the accounting and disclosure changes required as a result of the Tax Act.
The SEC staff guidance has recognized that, due to the complexity of the Tax Act, the accounting for income tax effects of the change in law may be incomplete upon issuance of a company's financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act was enacted.
SAB 118 states that if a company can determine a reasonable estimate for the effects of the Tax Act then this estimate can be included in the financial statements.
Changes to these provisional amounts could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.
We will continue to gather and analyze information on historical unrepatriated foreign earnings and to monitor state laws relating to this income to finalize both the federal and state tax impact.
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the provision for income taxes includes expenses related to GILTI and non-deductible officer’s compensation, offset partially by a benefit recorded for the Foreign-Derived Intangible Income deduction.
As of March 31, 2018, we do not expect to be materially impacted by the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax.
Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to examinations by various authorities, including tax authorities.
In addition to ongoing investigations, there could be additional investigations launched in the future by governmental authorities in various jurisdictions, and existing investigations could be expanded.
The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue to exist and additional investigations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time.
A substantial portion of our revenues are derived, and a substantial portion of our operations are conducted, outside the U.S. 



For the three months ended March, 31, 2018 and for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 international revenues accounted for 28%, 27%, 27% and 32%, respectively, of our total revenues.
We sell certain of our products, such as MarginMan and Pacer, primarily outside the U.S. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U, commonly referred to as “Brexit.” Current uncertainty over the final outcome of the negotiations between the U.K. and the E.U., with respect to the terms of the U.K.’s exit, may adversely affect our operations and financial results, as we generated approximately $32.0 million and $115.8 million in revenue from the U.K. in the three months ended March, 31, 2018 and the year ended December 31, 2017, respectively.
Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S. and significant revenues are generated outside the U.S., we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates.
Fluctuations in currencies relative to currencies in which our earnings are generated also make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations.
Because our Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, translation of sales or earnings generated in other currencies into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the reported amount of those sales or earnings.
In addition, we incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or a sales transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity.
Given the volatility of exchange rates, we cannot be assured we will be able to effectively manage our currency translation or transaction risk, and significant changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our financial statements.
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion on the foreign currency translation impact on operating results and financial condition.
We do not currently engage in hedging activities.
Changes in economic or political conditions globally and in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movements, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations.
From time to time we add new investment strategies to our investment product offerings by providing the initial cash investments as “seed capital.” The seed capital investments may decline in value.
We are a limited partner in various private equity funds and have future capital commitments related to certain private equity fund investments.
These investments are illiquid.
Generally, private equity fund securities are non-transferable or are subject to long holding periods, and withdrawals from the private equity firm partnerships are typically not permitted.
Even when transfer restrictions do not apply, there is generally no public market for the  



38 



securities.
Therefore, we may not be able to sell the securities at a time when we desire to do so.
We may not always be able to sell those investments at the same or higher prices than we paid for them.
We also participate in joint ventures with other companies.
These joint venture investments could require further capital contributions.
We do not control certain businesses in which we have significant ownership.
We invest in joint ventures and other unconsolidated affiliates as part of our business strategy, and part of our net income is derived from our pro rata share of the earnings of those businesses.
The other owners may have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the businesses we co-own.
Our pro rata share of any losses due to unfavorable performance of those companies could negatively impact our financial results.
We own interests in unconsolidated entities and various real estate joint ventures.
Our interests in such unconsolidated entities are subject to buy/sell arrangements, which could restrict our ability to sell our interests even if we were to determine it would be prudent to do so.
These arrangements could also allow us to purchase the other owners’ interests to prevent someone else from acquiring them and we cannot control the timing of occasions to do so.
The businesses or other owners may encourage us to increase our investment in or make contributions to the businesses at an inopportune time.
In addition, some of the agreements governing our joint venture arrangements include buy/sell provisions that provide a party to the arrangement with the option to purchase the other party’s interests upon such other party’s change of control at a purchase price that may be less than fair market value.
For instance, under the partnership agreement of IFDS L.P., in the event of a change of control of the Company, the other partner would have the option to purchase our interests in IFDS L.P. at a price equal to book value, unless another purchase provision in the partnership agreement was triggered prior to the change of control.
Book value may be substantially less than fair market value at the time of any sale of our interests upon a change of control.
A change or modification in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, including the impact of the adoption and implementation of the accounting standard update on revenue recognition issued in May 2014 by the FASB.
Under the new standard, we recognize term license revenues upfront at time of delivery rather than ratably over the related contract period.
Additionally, under the new standard, we capitalize and amortize certain direct costs, such as commissions, over the expected customer life rather than expensing them as incurred.
While the adoption of the new standard does not change the cash flows received from our contracts with customers, its adoption could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.
See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future.
Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could materially adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.
A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us.
Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud.
If we cannot do so, our reputation and operating results could be harmed.
A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information.
Even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.
In addition, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.
Over time, controls may become inadequate because changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may occur.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
39 



We currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness.
As of March 31, 2018, we had total indebtedness of $2,030.9 million and additional available borrowings of $149.1 million under our revolving credit facility.
To fund our acquisition of DST, and to refinance certain of the Company’s and DST’s existing indebtedness, we incurred approximately $5.4 billion in additional indebtedness in connection with our entry into the New Credit Agreement.
This indebtedness could have adverse consequences.
For example, it may: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



In addition, the agreement governing our senior credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests, and the additional indebtedness we incurred to fund the DST acquisition or otherwise may also contain restrictive covenants.
Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts.
To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash.
Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control.
Following the DST acquisition and our entry into the New Credit Agreement, we currently expect to make periodic interest payments of approximately $317.8 million annually.
Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future.
This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.
We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity.
Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.
The New Credit Agreement limits our ability, among other things, to: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



In addition, the New Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain compliance with specified leverage ratios.
Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control, and these provisions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise conduct our business activities and plans.
40 



Our inability to comply with any of these provisions could result in a default under one or more of the agreements governing our indebtedness.
If such a default occurs under one such agreement, the creditors under another debt agreement may elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable.
In addition, the lenders under our New Credit Agreement would have the right to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings.
If we are unable to repay outstanding borrowings when due, the lenders under our New Credit Agreement also have the right to proceed against the collateral, including our available cash and substantially all of our domestic assets and the assets of our domestic subsidiaries, granted to them to secure the indebtedness under that facility.
If the indebtedness under our New Credit Agreement were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness and our other indebtedness.
Risks Relating to Our Acquisition of DST Systems, Inc.
The anticipated benefits of our acquisition of DST may not be realized or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected.
The success of our acquisition of DST will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings derived from this transaction and our ability to integrate the two organizations and businesses.
The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process.
As a result, DST and we will devote significant management attention and resources prior to closing to prepare for integrating, and we will devote significant management attention and resources post-closing to integrate the business practices and operations of both organizations.
The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would impair the realization of the full expected benefits.
In addition, we continue to evaluate our estimates of synergies to be realized from the acquisition, so our actual cost-savings could differ materially from our current estimates.
We cannot assure you that we will achieve the full amount of cost-savings on the schedule anticipated or at all.
A failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the post-acquisition company and could adversely affect its results of operations.
In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer and other business relationships, and diversion of management’s attention.
In addition, even if our operations are integrated successfully with DST, the full benefits of the transactions may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected.
These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all.
Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business with DST.
An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction, and negatively impact the price of our common stock.
We will incur costs as a result of our acquisition of DST.
41 



We will incur substantial expenses in connection with our acquisition of DST and over a period of time following the completion of the acquisition.
While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction expenses will be incurred, factors beyond our control could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses.
Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately.
We do not control these analysts.
Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering at a price of $7.50 per share on March 31, 2010, and through March 31, 2018 our common stock has traded as high as $53.99 and as low as $6.64.
William C. Stone, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, exerts significant control over our Company.
As of May 2, 2018, William C. Stone, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 14.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock.
We are party to a stockholders’ agreement with Mr. Stone, pursuant to which Mr. Stone has the right to nominate two members of our board of directors, one of which will be Mr. Stone for so long as he is our Chief Executive Officer.
As a result, Mr. Stone has significant influence over our policy and affairs and matters requiring stockholder approval.
SS&C Holdings is a holding company with no operations or assets of its own and its ability to pay dividends is limited or otherwise restricted.
42 



As of March 31, 2018, SS&C Holdings has no direct operations and no significant assets other than the stock of SS&C and Advent Software, Inc.
The ability of SS&C Holdings to pay dividends is limited by its status as a holding company and by the terms of the agreement governing our indebtedness.
See “Risk factors - Risks relating to our indebtedness - Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies.”  Moreover, none of the subsidiaries of SS&C Holdings is obligated to make funds available to SS&C Holdings for the payment of dividends or otherwise.
In addition, Delaware law imposes requirements that may restrict the ability of our subsidiaries, including SS&C, to pay dividends to SS&C Holdings.
These limitations could reduce our attractiveness to investors.
Our management has broad discretion in the use of our existing cash resources and may not use such funds effectively.
Our management has broad discretion in the application of our cash resources.
Accordingly, our stockholders will have to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to our existing cash resources, with only limited information concerning management’s specific intentions.
Our management may spend our cash resources in ways that our stockholders may not desire or that may not yield a favorable return.
The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business.
Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our Company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock.
Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock.
These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management.
These provisions include: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.
They could also deter potential acquirers of our Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their shares of common stock in an acquisition.
Item 6.
Exhibits 



The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are filed as part of this Report.
43 



EXHIBIT INDEX 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



†  



Schedules have been omitted from this filing pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K.
The Registrant agrees to furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon its request; provided, however, that the Registrant may request confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Exchange Act for any schedule so furnished.
*  



submitted electronically herewith 



Attached as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, (ii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the three months ended March 31, 2018, (iii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 and (iv) Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
44
