ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
3

 SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(In millions, except per share data)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(In millions)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
6

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(In millions)



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 



For the Three Months Ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018 



(In millions)



(Unaudited) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
8

SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY PLC



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



1.
Its principal products are hard disk drives, commonly referred to as disk drives, hard drives or HDDs.
In addition to HDDs, the Company produces a broad range of data storage products including solid state drives (“SSDs”), solid state hybrid drives (“SSHDs”) and storage subsystems.
Hard disk drives are devices that store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating disks with magnetic surfaces.
Disk drives continue to be the primary medium of mass data storage due to their performance attributes, reliability, high quality and cost effectiveness.
In addition to HDDs and SSDs, SSHDs combine the features of SSDs and HDDs in the same unit, containing a high capacity hard disk drive and a smaller SSD acting as a cache to improve performance of frequently accessed data.
The Company’s SSD product portfolio is mainly comprised of Serial Attached SCSI (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory Express (“NVMe”) and is designed for applications in enterprise servers and storage systems.
The Company’s enterprise data solutions (“EDS”) portfolio includes storage subsystems for enterprises, cloud service providers, scale-out storage servers and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”).
The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019, are included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on August 2, 2019.
Fiscal Year



The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30.
The three months ended October 4, 2019 consisted of 14 weeks and the three months ended September 28, 2018 consisted of 13 weeks.
Fiscal year 2020, which ends on July 3, 2020, is comprised of 53 weeks and fiscal year 2019, which ended on June 28, 2019, is comprised of 52 weeks.
The fiscal quarters ended October 4, 2019, June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, are also referred to herein as the “September 2019 quarter”, the “June 2019 quarter”, and the “September 2018 quarter”, respectively.
9

Other Long-Lived Assets



In accordance with its policy, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of its fixed assets on an ongoing basis.
This review indicated that the actual lives of certain manufacturing equipment at its manufacturing facilities were longer than the estimated useful lives used for deprecation purposes in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
As a result, effective June 29, 2019, the Company changed its estimate of the useful lives of its manufacturing equipment from a range of three to five years to a range of three to seven years.
The effect of this change in estimate increased the September 2019 quarter net income by $23 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.09.
Leases



Effective June 29, 2019, the Company adopted a new accounting policy for leases in accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 842, Leases, using the modified retrospective approach.
Accordingly, the Company applied the new lease accounting standard prospectively to leases existing or commencing on or after June 29, 2019.
The Company elected to apply the practical expedients which allow for not reassessing whether existing contracts contain leases, the classification of existing leases and whether the existing initial direct costs meet the new definition.
In addition, the Company elected to combine lease and non-lease components for facility leases and to not recognize right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for leases with an initial term of 12 months of less on the balance sheet.
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease at inception.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and the corresponding lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments and ROU assets are based on the lease liability, adjusted for lease prepayments, lease incentives received and the lessee’s initial direct costs.
As the Company’s leases do not provide an implicit rate, the net present value of future minimum lease payments is determined using the Company’s estimated incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at the lease commencement date.
Additionally, the Company’s lease term may include options to extend or terminate the lease.
These options are reflected in the ROU asset and lease liability when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The Company’s lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees.
The Company recognizes lease expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Variable lease payments not dependent on an index or a rate primarily consist of common area maintenance charges, are expensed as incurred, and are not included in the ROU asset and lease liability calculation.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standard Update (“ASU”) 2016-02 (ASC Topic 842), Leases and subsequently issued certain interpretive clarifications on this new guidance which amends a number of aspects of lease accounting, including requiring a lessee to recognize an ROU asset and corresponding lease liability for operating leases and enhanced disclosures.
As of June 29, 2019, adoption of the standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and corresponding current and non-current lease liabilities of $115 million, $17 million and $57 million, respectively, on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily relating to real estate operating leases.
For information regarding the impact of ASC 842 adoption, see Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Leases above and Note 5.
Leases.
This ASU became effective and the Company adopted the guidance in the September 2019 quarter.
The Company has elected not to reclassify the stranded amounts.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on its condensed consolidated financial statements and disclosures.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15 (ASC Subtopic 350-40), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software - Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service 



10

Contract.
This ASU aligns the accounting for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the accounting for implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The Company is required to adopt the guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13 (ASC Topic 326), Financial Instruments—Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
This ASU amends the requirement on the measurement and recognition of expected credit losses for financial assets held.
The Company is required to adopt this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2021.
The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this ASU on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
2.
Balance Sheet Information



Available-for-sale Debt Securities



The following table summarizes, by major type, the fair value and amortized cost of the Company’s investments as of October 4, 2019: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of October 4, 2019, the Company’s Other current assets included $2 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations.
As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no material available-for-sale debt securities that had been in a continuous unrealized loss position for a period greater than 12 months.
The Company determined no available-for-sale debt securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of October 4, 2019.
The fair value and amortized cost of the Company’s investments classified as available-for-sale debt securities as of October 4, 2019, by remaining contractual maturity were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes, by major type, the fair value and amortized cost of the Company’s investments as of June 28, 2019: 



11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of June 28, 2019, the Company’s Other current assets included $2 million in restricted cash and investments held as collateral at banks for various performance obligations.
The Company determined no available-for-sale securities were other-than-temporarily impaired as of June 28, 2019.
Debt



Credit Agreement 



The Company’s subsidiary, Seagate HDD Cayman, entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) on February 20, 2019, which was most recently amended on September 16, 2019.
The Credit Agreement provides an up to $1.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“Revolving Credit Facility”) and a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (“Term Loan”).
The Revolving Credit Facility has a final maturity of February 20, 2024 and the Term Loan has a final maturity date of September 16, 2025.
The loans made under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan will bear interest at a rate of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus a variable margin for each facility that will be determined based on the corporate credit rating of the Company.
STX and certain of its material subsidiaries fully and unconditionally guarantee both the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan.
An aggregate amount of up to $75 million of the Revolving Credit Facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit, and an aggregate amount of up to $50 million of such facility is also available for swing line loans.
On September 17, 2019, Seagate HDD Cayman borrowed the $500 million principal amount under the Term Loan and the proceeds were used to repurchase a portion of its outstanding senior notes.
The Term Loan is repayable in quarterly installments of 1.25% of the original principal amount beginning on December 31, 2020, with the remaining balance payable upon maturity.
The Credit Agreement includes three financial covenants: (1) interest coverage ratio, (2) total leverage ratio, and (3) a minimum liquidity amount.
The Company was in compliance with the covenants as of October 4, 2019 and expects to be in compliance for the next 12 months.
13

As of October 4, 2019, no borrowings were drawn and no letters of credit or swing line loans had been utilized under the Revolving Credit Facility.
Other Long-Term Debt



$750 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.25% Senior Notes due March 2022 (the “2022 Notes”).
The interest on the 2022 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2022 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2022 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of approximately $250 million was repurchased pursuant to cash tender offers for certain senior notes (the “Tender Offers”).
The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due June 2023 (the “2023 Notes”).
The interest on the 2023 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2023 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2023 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of $200 million was repurchased pursuant to the Tender Offers.
The Company recorded a loss of $10 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due March 2024 (the “2024 Notes”).The interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2024 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2024 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
$1 billion Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.75% Senior Notes due January 2025 (the “2025 Notes”).
The interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2025 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2025 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
On September 18, 2019, the principal amount of approximately $170 million was repurchased pursuant to the Tender Offers.
The Company recorded a loss of $8 million, which was included in Other, net in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
$700 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 4.875% Senior Notes due June 2027 (the “2027 Notes”).
The interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2027 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2027 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
$500 million Aggregate Principal Amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due December 2034 (the “2034 Notes”).
The interest on the 2034 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year.
The issuer under the 2034 Notes is Seagate HDD Cayman, and the obligations under the 2034 Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by STX.
At October 4, 2019, future principal payments on long-term debt were as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



4.Income Taxes



The Company’s income tax benefit of $2 million for the three months ended October 4, 2019 included approximately $11 million of net discrete tax benefit of which $8 million was associated with net excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation expense.
14

During the three months ended October 4, 2019, the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties increased by approximately $2 million to $85 million.
The Company’s income tax provision of $18 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018 included approximately $1 million of net discrete tax expense.
5.
Leases



The Company is a lessee in several operating leases related to real estate facilities for warehouse and office space.
The Company’s lease arrangements comprise operating leases with various expiration dates through 2082.
The lease term includes the non-cancelable period of the lease, adjusted for options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that an option will be exercised.
Operating lease costs include short-term lease costs and are shown net of immaterial sublease income.
The components of lease costs and other information related to leases were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



ROU assets and lease liabilities are included on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



At October 4, 2019, future lease payments included in the measurement of lease liabilities were as follows (in millions):



15

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6.Restructuring and Exit Costs



 For the three months ended October 4, 2019, and September 28, 2018, the Company recorded restructuring charges of approximately $17 million and $23 million, respectively, comprised primarily of charges related to workforce reduction costs and facilities and other exit costs.
The Company’s significant restructuring plans are described below.
December 2017 Plan - On December 8, 2017, the Company committed to a restructuring plan (the “December 2017 Plan”) to reduce its cost structure.
The December 2017 Plan included reducing the Company’s global headcount by approximately 500 employees.
The December 2017 Plan was substantially completed by the end of fiscal year 2018.
The following table summarizes the Company’s restructuring activities under all of the Company’s active restructuring plans for the three months ended October 4, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7.
From time to time, the Company enters into cash flow hedges in the form of foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
The objective of foreign currency forward exchange contracts is to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk on forecasted expenses and investments denominated in foreign currencies.
In the September 2019 quarter, the Company entered into certain interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount of $500 million to convert the variable interest rate on its Term Loan to fixed interest rates.
The contracts were effective as of October 4, 2019 and will mature on September 16, 2025.
The objective of the interest rate swap agreements is to eliminate the variability of interest payment cash flows associated with variable interest rates.
The Company designated the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges.
The Company’s accounting policies for these instruments are based on whether the instruments are classified as designated or non-designated hedging instruments.
The Company records all derivatives on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
The changes in the fair value of highly effective designated cash flow hedges are recorded in Accumulated 



16

other comprehensive loss until the hedged item is recognized in earnings.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments or are not assessed to be highly effective are adjusted to fair value through earnings.
The amount of net unrealized loss on cash flow hedges was not material as of October 4, 2019 and as of June 28, 2019.
The Company did not recognize any material amounts related to the loss of hedge designation on discontinued cash flow hedges during the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively.
Other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts that the Company uses to hedge the foreign currency exposure on forecasted expenditures denominated in currency other than the U.S. dollar.
All of the foreign currency forward exchange contracts mature within 12 months.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company is subject to equity market risks due to changes in the fair value of the notional investments selected by its employees as part of its Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan—the Seagate Deferred Compensation Plan (the “SDCP”).
In fiscal year 2014, the Company entered into a Total Return Swap (“TRS”) in order to manage the equity market risks associated with the SDCP liabilities.
The Company pays a floating rate, based on LIBOR plus an interest rate spread, on the notional amount of the TRS.
The TRS is designed to substantially offset changes in the SDCP liability due to changes in the value of the investment options made by employees.
As of October 4, 2019, the notional investments underlying the TRS amounted to $117 million.
The contract term of the TRS is through January 2020 and is settled on a monthly basis, therefore limiting counterparty performance risk.
The Company does not designate the TRS as a hedge.
Rather, the Company records all changes in the fair value of the TRS to earnings to offset the market value changes of the SDCP liabilities.
The amount of loss recognized in income related to the ineffective portion of the hedging relationships and to the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge ineffectiveness was not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019.
Fair Value



Measurement of Fair Value



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Fair Value Hierarchy



A fair value hierarchy is based on whether the market participant assumptions used in determining fair value are obtained from independent sources (observable inputs) or reflect the Company’s own assumptions of market participant valuation (unobservable inputs).
A financial instrument’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Where appropriate the Company’s or the counterparty’s non-performance risk is considered in determining the fair values of liabilities and assets, respectively.
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



The following tables present the Company’s assets and liabilities, by financial instrument type and balance sheet line item, that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding accrued interest components, as of October 4, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following tables present the Company’s assets and liabilities, by financial instrument type and balance sheet line item, that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding accrued interest components, as of June 28, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



20

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company classifies items in Level 1 if the financial assets consist of securities for which quoted prices are available in an active market.
The Company classifies items in Level 2 if the financial asset or liability is valued using observable inputs.
The Company uses observable inputs including quoted prices in active markets for similar assets or liabilities.
Level 2 assets include: agency bonds, corporate bonds, commercial paper, municipal bonds, U.S. Treasuries, time deposits and certificates of deposit.
These debt investments are priced using observable inputs and valuation models which vary by asset class.
The Company uses a pricing service to assist in determining the fair value of all of its cash equivalents and short-term investments.
For the cash equivalents and short-term investments in the Company’s portfolio, multiple pricing sources are generally available.
The Company’s derivative financial instruments are also classified within Level 2.
The Company’s derivative financial instruments consist of foreign currency forward exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and the TRS.
The Company recognizes derivative financial instruments in its condensed consolidated financial statements at fair value.
The Company determines the fair value of these instruments by considering the estimated amount it would pay or receive to terminate these agreements at the reporting date.
Items Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis



From time to time, the Company enters into certain strategic investments for the promotion of business and strategic objectives.
As of October 4, 2019 and June 28, 2019, the carrying value of the Company’s strategic investments was $115 million and $114 million, respectively.
For the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, there were no upward or downward adjustments on equity investments.
As of June 28, 2019, the Company had $23 million of held for sale land and building (collectively, the “properties”) included in Other current assets on its Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
In July 2019, the Company completed the sale of the properties.
As of October 4, 2019, the Company had no held for sale land and building.
Other Fair Value Disclosures 



The Company’s debt is carried at amortized cost.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s debt is derived using the closing price of the same debt instruments as of the date of valuation, which takes into account the yield curve, interest rates and other observable inputs.
Accordingly, these fair value measurements are categorized as Level 2.
The following table presents the fair value and amortized cost of the Company’s debt:



21

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



9.
Equity



Share Capital



The Company’s authorized share capital is $13,500 and consists of 1,250,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.00001, of which 262,624,650 shares were outstanding as of October 4, 2019, and 100,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.00001, of which none were issued or outstanding as of October 4, 2019.
Ordinary shares—Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the board of directors (the “Board of Directors”).
Upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, after required payments are made to holders of preferred shares, any remaining assets will be distributed ratably to holders of the preferred and ordinary shares.
Holders of shares are entitled to one vote per share on all matters upon which the ordinary shares are entitled to vote, including the election of directors.
Preferred shares—The Company may issue preferred shares in one or more series, up to the authorized amount, without shareholder approval.
The Board of Directors is authorized to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each series, and to fix the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares of each wholly unissued series and any of its qualifications, limitations or restrictions.
The Board of Directors can also increase or decrease the number of shares of a series, but not below the number of shares of that series then outstanding, without any further vote or action by the shareholders.
The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred shares with voting or conversion rights that could harm the voting power or other rights of the holders of the ordinary shares.
Repurchases of Equity Securities



 All repurchases are effected as redemptions in accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association.
As of October 4, 2019, $1.7 billion remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization limit.
The following table sets forth information with respect to repurchases of ordinary shares during the three months ended October 4, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



22

10.
Revenue



The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by sales channel and geographical region for the Company’s single reportable segment:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



__________________________________________



(1) Revenue is attributed to countries based on bill from locations.
11.
Guarantees



Indemnifications of Officers and Directors 



Seagate Technology, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands (“Seagate-Cayman”) and wholly-owned subsidiary of STX, from time to time enters into indemnification agreements with the directors, officers, employees and agents of STX or any of its subsidiaries (each, an “Indemnitee”).
The indemnification agreements provide indemnification in addition to any of Indemnitee’s indemnification rights under any relevant Articles of Association (or similar constitutional document), applicable law or otherwise, and indemnifies an Indemnitee for certain expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and settlement amounts actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in any action or proceeding, including any action by or in the right of STX or any of its subsidiaries, arising out of his or her service as a director, officer, employee or agent of STX or any of its subsidiaries or of any other entity to which he or she provides services at the Company’s request.
In addition, the indemnification agreements provide that Seagate-Cayman will advance expenses incurred by an Indemnitee in connection with enforcement of the indemnification agreement or with the investigation, settlement or appeal of any action or proceeding against him or her as to which he or she could be indemnified.
Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.
Historically, the Company has not made any significant indemnification payments under such agreements and no amount has been accrued in the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements with respect to these indemnification obligations.
23

Product Warranty



The Company estimates probable product warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized.
The Company generally warrants its products for a period of 1 to 5 years.
The Company uses estimated repair or replacement costs and uses statistical modeling to estimate product return rates in order to determine its warranty obligation.
Changes in the Company’s product warranty liability during the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018 were as follows: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



12.
Earnings Per Share



Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period.
Potentially dilutive securities include outstanding options, unvested restricted share units and performance-based share units and shares to be purchased under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”).
The dilutive effect of potentially dilutive securities is reflected in diluted earnings per share by application of the treasury stock method.
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to the shareholders of the Company:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The anti-dilutive shares related to employee equity award plans that were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share were not material for the three months ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
13.
Intellectual Property Litigation



Convolve, Inc. (“Convolve”) and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (“MIT”) v. Seagate Technology LLC, et al.
4,916,635 (the “‘635 patent”) and U.S. Patent No.
6,314,473 (the “‘473 patent”).
The district court ruled in 2010 that the ‘267 patent was out of the case.
On August 16, 2011, the district court granted in part and denied in part the Company’s motion for summary judgment.
On July 1, 2013, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit: 1) affirmed the district court’s summary judgment rulings that Seagate did not misappropriate any of the alleged trade secrets and that the asserted claims of the ‘635 patent are invalid; 2) reversed and vacated the district court’s summary judgment of non-infringement with respect to the ‘473 patent; and 3) remanded the case for further proceedings on the ‘473 patent.
On July 11, 2014, the district court granted the Company’s further summary judgment motion regarding the ‘473 patent.
On February 10, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit: 1) affirmed the district court’s summary judgment of no direct infringement by Seagate because Seagate’s ATA/SCSI disk drives do not meet the “user interface” limitation of the asserted claims of the ‘473 patent; 2) affirmed the district court’s summary judgment of non-infringement by Compaq’s products as to claims 1, 3, and 5 of the ‘473 patent because Compaq’s F10 BIOS interface does not meet the “commands” limitation of those claims; 3) vacated the district court’s summary judgment of non-infringement by Compaq’s accused products as to claims 7-15 of the ‘473 patent; 4) reversed the district court’s summary judgment of non-infringement based on intervening rights; and 5) remanded the case to the district court for further proceedings on the ‘473 patent.
7,128,988, “Magnetic Material Structures, Devices and Methods.” The Company believes the claims asserted in the complaint are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this case.
The court issued its claim construction ruling on October 18, 2017.
A jury trial in this matter is scheduled for June 1, 2020.
Environmental Matters



The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites.
Some of the Company’s operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal and revocation by issuing authorities.
The Company has established environmental management systems and continually updates its environmental policies and standard operating procedures for its operations worldwide.
The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits.
Some environmental laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (as amended, the “Superfund” law) and its state equivalents, can impose liability for the cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity.
The Company has been identified as a responsible or potentially responsible party at several sites.
At each of these sites, the Company has an assigned portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable parties.
The Company has fulfilled its responsibilities at some of these sites and remains involved in only a few at this time.
For example, the European Union (“EU”) enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (2011/65/EU), which prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including disk drives and server storage products, put on the market after July 1, 2006.
The EU REACH Directive (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals, EC 1907/2006) also restricts substances of very high concern in products.
Other Matters



The Company is involved in a number of other judicial, regulatory or administrative proceedings and investigations incidental to its business, and the Company may be involved in such proceedings and investigations arising in the normal course of its business in the future.
14.
Subsequent Events



Dividend Declared



On October 28, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.65 per share, which will be payable on January 8, 2020 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 26, 2019.
26

ITEM 1.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS



For a discussion of legal proceedings, see “Part I, Item 1.
Financial Statements—Note 13.
Legal, Environmental and Other Contingencies” of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2019.
