PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION



Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
The Company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings that are reasonably possible to result in a material loss.
Item 1A.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
The following table provides information regarding repurchases of common stock made during the three months ended December 29, 2017:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) The stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors on January 17, 2017, authorizes the repurchase of up to $500.0 million of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program that replaces in its entirety the January 17, 2017, plan.
(2) 300,000 shares were repurchased at an average price of $110.03 per share as part of our stock repurchase program, and 403,287 shares were repurchased by us at the fair market value of the common stock as of the applicable purchase date, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under equity award agreements with an average price of $110.82 per share.
(3) 1,350,000 shares were repurchased at an average price of $103.30 per share as part of our stock repurchase program, and 605 shares were repurchased by us at the fair market value of the common stock as of the applicable purchase date, in connection with the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations under equity award agreements with an average price of $99.20 per share.
On November 15, 2017, we agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of our common stock to an unaffiliated third party as contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement.
The shares are issuable for no cash payment but only upon the achievement of certain product sale milestones, certain terminations of the agreement or if the Company engages in certain competition with the third party.
Though the timing is not certain, the Company does not expect achievement of the product sale milestones to occur any time prior to mid-2020.
The transaction was made in reliance on the exemption from registration in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act.
The Company has agreed to file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission registering the resale of any issued shares.
Item 5.
Other Information.
Approval of Revised Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan



On January 30, 2018, the Compensation Committee (the “Compensation Committee”) of the Company’s Board of Directors amended the Company’s Fiscal Year 2018 Executive Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) to provide that the portion of the incentive awards under the Incentive Plan that previously was attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP earnings per share (“EPS”) performance metric will instead be attainable based on the Company’s achievement against a non-GAAP operating income performance metric.
The non-GAAP operating income performance metric was established by the Compensation Committee on November 7, 2017, concurrently with the non-GAAP EPS performance metric.
The Compensation Committee approved the change in metrics in light of the favorable impact on the Company’s non-GAAP EPS for fiscal year 2018 that is now expected as a result of the new U.S. tax legislation, which was enacted on December 22, 2017, as well as the potential favorable impact on non-GAAP EPS of the Company’s new stock repurchase program.
The Compensation Committee believes this change maintains the original rigor of the performance incentive objectives of the Incentive Plan.
No other changes were made to the Incentive Plan.
Amendment to Third Amended and Restated By-laws



Effective January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved and adopted an amendment to our Third Amended and Restated By-laws (the “By-laws”) to grant stockholders the right to call a special meeting of stockholders.
Prior to the adoption of this provision, a special meeting of stockholders could only be called pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the members of the Board of Directors.
20

Article II, Section 3 of the By-laws has been amended to permit stockholders who, individually or in the aggregate, own at least 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock and who have held such shares continuously for at least one year prior to their request, to call a special meeting of stockholders, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the By-laws.
This description of the amendment to the By-laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the By-laws, as amended, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
21

Item 6.
Exhibits.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 22
