Item 1.
Financial Statements.
SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited, in millions, except per share amounts) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
2

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited, in millions) 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
3

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(In millions, except per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
4

SKYWORKS SOLUTIONS, INC.



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited, in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
5

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



1.
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION



Skyworks Solutions, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Skyworks” or the “Company”), is empowering the wireless networking revolution.
The Company’s highly innovative analog semiconductors are connecting people, places, and things, spanning a number of new and previously unimagined applications within the automotive, broadband, cellular infrastructure, connected home, industrial, medical, military, smartphone, tablet and wearable markets.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for interim financial reporting.
The results of operations, financial position, and cash flows for the Company during the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those expected for the full year.
This information should be read in conjunction with the Company’s financial statements and notes thereto contained in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017, filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017, as amended by Amendment No.
1 to such Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on January 26, 2018 (the “2017 10-K”).
Significant judgment is required in determining the reserves for and fair value of items such as overall fair value assessments of assets and liabilities, particularly those classified as Level 2 or Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, marketable securities, inventory, intangible assets associated with business combinations, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and income taxes.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30.
Fiscal year 2018 consists of 52 weeks and ends on September 28, 2018.
Fiscal year 2017 consisted of 52 weeks and ended on September 29, 2017.
The third quarters and nine months ended for fiscal years 2018 and 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks and 39 weeks, respectively, and ended on June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, respectively.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements



In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-09, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which is intended to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.
The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018.
As a result of adoption, the Company recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $23.6 million to the income tax provision for excess tax benefits generated by the settlement of share-based awards for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
The adoption also resulted in an increase in cash flow from operations and a decrease of cash flow from financing of $23.6 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
Prior periods have not been adjusted.
The change in accounting for forfeitures was applied using a modified retrospective transition method and resulted in a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 in the amount of $1.9 million.
Forfeitures in the future will now be recorded as a benefit in the period they are realized.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (“ASU 2017-04”).
This ASU simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill and eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
The annual or interim goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and an impairment charge should be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
The Company early adopted ASU 2017-04 during the second quarter 



 6

of fiscal year 2018 and applied it prospectively, as permitted by the standard.
The adoption of this standard did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements



In August 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and will supersede most current revenue recognition guidance.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company will adopt this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and currently expects to apply the modified retrospective approach, with the cumulative effect of applying the new guidance recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance.
The Company has established a cross-functional team to assess the potential impact of the new revenue standard.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the new revenue standard on its business processes, systems, controls and consolidated financial statements.
Based on its preliminary assessments, the Company does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on the nature, amount, and timing of its revenue recognition.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02”).
This ASU requires lessees to reflect most leases on their balance sheet as assets and obligations.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted.
The standard is to be applied under the modified retrospective method, with elective reliefs, which requires application of the new guidance for all periods presented.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-02 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230), (“ASU 2016-15”).
This ASU provides guidance on the presentation and classification of specific cash flow items to improve consistency within the statement of cash flows.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect that ASU 2016-15 will have on the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Intra-entity Transfers of an Asset Other than Inventory (“ASU 2016-16”).
This ASU provides guidance that changes the accounting for income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
Under the new guidance, the selling (transferring) entity is required to recognize a current tax expense or benefit upon transfer of the asset.
The effective date for the standard is for fiscal years beginning after December, 15, 2017, on a modified retrospective basis, and early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-16 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Scope of Modification Accounting (“ASU 2017-09”).
This ASU provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718.
The effective date for the standard is for interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted, including adoption in any interim period for which financial statements have not yet been issued.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2017-09 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (Topic 320) (“ASU 2016-13”), which requires a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured on the basis of amortized cost to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected.
This ASU requires that the income statement reflect the measurement of credit losses for newly recognized financial assets as well as the expected increases or decreases of expected credit losses that have taken place during the period.
This ASU requires that credit losses of debt securities designated as available-for-sale be recorded through an allowance for credit losses.
The ASU also limits the credit loss to the amount by which fair value is below amortized cost.
This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2021, with early adoption permitted.
This ASU requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2016-13 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
7

In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (Topic 320) (“ASU 2016-01”), which provides guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities.
This ASU will be effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and requires modified retrospective adoption, with prospective adoption for amendments related to equity securities without readily determinable fair values.
The Company is evaluating the effect ASU 2016-01 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-based Payments (“ASU 2018-07”).
This ASU expands the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees.
The effective date for the standard is for interim periods in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted, but no earlier than the Company's adoption date of Topic 606.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect ASU 2018-07 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
Supplemental Cash Flow Information



At June 29, 2018, the Company had $13.9 million accrued to other long-term liabilities for capital equipment, and $28.0 million accrued to accounts payable for capital equipment.
These amounts accrued for capital equipment purchases have been excluded from the consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, and are expected to be paid in subsequent periods.
Certain prior period amounts in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
The description “Proceeds from employee stock purchase plan” has been reclassified from net cash provided by operating activities to net cash used in financing activities.
2.
MARKETABLE SECURITIES 



The Company's portfolio of available for sale marketable securities consists of the following (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The contractual maturities of noncurrent available for sale marketable securities were due within two years or less.
The Company recorded unrealized gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company concluded that the unrealized losses were temporary at June 29, 2018.
8

3.
FAIR VALUE



The Company groups its financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis in three levels, based on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value.
These levels are:



•Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2 - Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-driven valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated with, observable market data.
Assets and Liabilities Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 



The Company measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis such as its financial instruments.
There have been no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 assets or liabilities during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018.
Contingent consideration related to business combinations is recorded as a Level 3 liability because management uses significant judgments and unobservable inputs to determine the fair value.
The Company reassesses the fair value of its contingent consideration liabilities on a quarterly basis and records any fair value adjustments to earnings in the period that they are determined.
Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following (in millions): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



* Cash equivalents included in level 2 consist of corporate bonds and notes, foreign government bonds, commercial paper, and agency securities purchased with less than ninety days until maturity.
The following table summarizes changes to the fair value of the Level 3 liabilities (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Assets Measured and Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 



The Company’s non-financial assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets resulting from business combinations, are measured at fair value using income approach valuation methodologies at the date of acquisition and are subsequently re-measured if there are indicators of impairment.
There were no indicators of impairment identified during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018.
4.
INVENTORY 



Inventory consists of the following (in millions): 



 9

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



5.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET 



Property, plant and equipment, net consists of the following (in millions): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 



There were no changes to the carrying amount of goodwill during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018.
The Company tests its goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of its fourth fiscal quarter and in interim periods if certain events occur indicating the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired.
There were no indicators of impairment noted during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018.
Intangible assets consist of the following (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Annual amortization expense for the next five fiscal years related to intangible assets is expected to be as follows (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



 10

7.
The Company believes these amounts are reasonable estimates; however these amounts are provisional and are subject to change.
Additional time is needed to gather the information necessary to finalize the computations of the impact of the new tax legislation.
Accordingly, the Company revised its estimate of the mandatory deemed repatriation tax on foreign earnings by decreasing the one-time charge from $257.8 million for the three months ended December 29, 2017, to $238.0 million for the nine months ended June 29, 2018, primarily due to a change in the interpretation of the definition of cash within the computation.
The $19.8 million measurement period adjustment reduced the effective tax rate by 2.0% for the nine months ended June 29, 2018.
These BEAT provisions are not effective for the Company until fiscal year 2019.
The Company does not presently expect that it will be subject to the minimum tax imposed by the BEAT provisions.
The reduction of the corporate tax rate to 21% is effective within fiscal year 2018.
The $238.0 million deemed repatriation tax is payable over the next eight years, $19.0 million per year for each of the next five years, followed by payments of $35.8 million, $47.7 million, and $59.5 million in years six through eight, respectively.
The Company has accrued $219.0 million of the deemed repatriation tax in long-term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheet as of June 29, 2018.
8.
From time to time the Company may also be involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business.
The Company does not believe there are any pending legal proceedings that are reasonably possible to result in a material loss.
Guarantees and Indemnifications



The Company has made no significant contractual guarantees for the benefit of third parties.
In connection with certain facility leases, the Company has indemnified its lessors for certain claims arising from the facility or the lease.
12

The Company indemnifies its directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted under the laws of the state of Delaware.
The duration of the indemnities varies, and in many cases is indefinite.
In certain instances, the Company’s indemnities do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments the Company could be obligated to make.
9.
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



Stock Repurchase Program



On January 31, 2018, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, pursuant to which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of its common stock from time to time prior to January 31, 2020, on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements.
During the three months ended June 29, 2018, the Company paid $240.3 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 2.5 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $97.43 per share).
During the nine months ended June 29, 2018, the Company paid $524.5 million (including commissions) in connection with the repurchase of 5.1 million shares of its common stock (paying an average price of $102.06 per share).
As of June 29, 2018, $647.9 million remained available under the existing stock repurchase authorization.
Dividends 



On July 19, 2018, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had declared a cash dividend on its common stock of $0.38 per share, payable on August 28, 2018, to the Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 7, 2018.
During the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, dividends charged to retained earnings were as follows (in millions, except per share data): 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Share-based Compensation



The following table summarizes the share-based compensation expense by line item in the Statements of Operations (in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On November 15, 2017, the Company agreed to potentially issue not more than 1% of its common stock to an unaffiliated third party as a contingent consideration for its role under a multi-year collaboration agreement, upon the achievement of certain product sales milestones.
The shares have been valued utilizing a probability weighted series of Black-Scholes pricing models and could be issued after mid-2020.
The amount recorded in the statement of operations within selling, general and administrative expense for the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, is not material.
10.
EARNINGS PER SHARE



 13

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share (in millions, except per share amounts):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding during the period.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share includes the dilutive effect of equity based awards that were outstanding during the three and nine months ended June 29, 2018, and June 30, 2017, using the treasury stock method.
Certain of the Company’s outstanding share-based awards, noted in the table above, were excluded because they were anti-dilutive, but they could become dilutive in the future.
