Item 2.
We do not undertake any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring or circumstances arising after the date of this report.
We encourage you to read that section carefully.
OVERVIEW



We are a global leader in cyber security and provide cyber security products, services and solutions to organizations and individuals worldwide.
Our Enterprise Security portfolio includes a deep and broad mix of products, services and solutions, delivered as part of an Integrated Cyber Defense Platform, which unifies cloud and on-premises security to provide advanced threat protection and information protection across all endpoints, networks, email, and cloud applications.
Our Cyber Safety Solutions (delivered through our Norton and LifeLock offerings) help consumers protect their information, identities, devices and networks at home and online.
Fiscal calendar



We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31.
The second quarter of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 both consisted of 13 weeks.
The six months ended September 28, 2018 and September 29, 2017 both consisted 26 weeks.
Our 2019 fiscal year consists of 52 weeks and ends on March 29, 2019.
Key financial metrics



The following tables provides our key financial metrics for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Below are our financial highlights for the second quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year: 



•Net revenues decreased 5% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our website security (“WSS”) and public key infrastructure (“PKI”) solutions in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Operating income increased $111 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation expense and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
•Net loss and diluted net loss per share decreased primarily due to increased operating income, partially offset by higher income tax expense.
28

Below are our financial highlights for the first six months of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding period in the prior year unless stated otherwise: 



•Net revenues decreased 3% primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, partially offset by an increase in revenue from our identity and information protection solutions.
•Operating income increased $157 million primarily due to increased revenue from our identity and information protection solutions, and lower stock-based compensation and restructuring, transition and other costs, partially offset by the absence in the first six months of fiscal 2019 of operating income from our divested WSS and PKI solutions.
•Net loss and diluted net loss per share decreased primarily due to increased operating income and a decrease in interest expense, partially offset by an increase in income tax expenses.
•Cash flow from operating activities increased $181 million due to a lower net loss, net of adjustments, and favorable net changes in operating assets and liabilities.
•Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased compared to March 30, 2018, primarily due to cash provided by operations.
•Contract liabilities decreased $357 million compared to March 30, 2018, primarily due to a decrease of $169 million in March 30, 2018 balances as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, as well as lower billings versus recognized revenue during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates.
There have been no material changes in the matters for which we make critical accounting estimates in the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements during the six months ended September 28, 2018, except for changes as a result of the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
Revenue recognition



We recognize revenue primarily pursuant to the requirements under the authoritative guidance on contracts with customers.
Revenue recognition requirements are very complex and require us to make estimates and assumptions.
We enter into arrangements with multiple performance obligations, which may include hardware, software licenses, cloud services, support and maintenance, and professional services.
We allocate revenue to each performance obligation on a relative fair value basis based on management’s estimate of stand-alone selling price (“SSP”).
Judgments are required to determine the SSP for each performance obligation.
The determination of SSP is made by taking into consideration observable prices in historical transactions.
Changes to the performance obligations in an arrangement, the judgments required to estimate the SSP for the respective performance obligations, and increasing variability in contractual arrangements could materially impact the amount and timing of revenue recognition.
30

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



The following table sets forth our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Percentages may not add due to rounding.
Net revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Net revenues decreased $65 million primarily due to a $112 million decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Security segment, primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, offset by an increase of $47 million in revenue from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to increased revenue from identity and information protection solutions.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Net revenues decreased $84 million primarily due to a $202 million decrease in revenue from our Enterprise Security segment primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions, offset by an increase of $118 million in revenue from our Consumer Digital Safety segment due to increased revenue from identity and information protection solutions.
31

Net revenues by geographical region



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.
Cost of revenues



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our cost of revenues was relatively flat in each of the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, compared to the corresponding periods in fiscal 2018.
Operating expenses



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Sales and marketing expense decreased $69 million primarily due to a decrease of $35 million in advertising and promotional expense primarily in our Consumer Digital Safety segment, a decrease of $19 million in stock-based compensation, and a decrease of $9 million in other compensation related expenses, primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Research and development expense was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
General and administrative expense decreased $46 million, primarily due to a $41 million decrease in stock-based compensation.
Amortization of intangible assets did not change significantly compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Sales and marketing expense decreased $116 million primarily due to a decrease of $42 million in advertising and promotional expense, primarily in our Consumer Digital Safety segment, a decrease of $31 million in our stock-based compensation expense, and a decrease of $21 million in other compensation related expenses, primarily as a result of the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Research and development expense was relatively flat compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
32

General and administrative expense decreased $62 million, primarily due to a $60 million decrease in stock-based compensation.
Amortization of intangible assets did not change significantly compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2018.
Restructuring, transition and other costs decreased $33 million primarily due to a decrease of $34 million in restructuring costs.
Non-operating expense, net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Non-operating expense, net, increased by $14 million primarily due to a $34 million loss during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from our equity interest received in connection with the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Non-operating expense, net, decreased by $5 million primarily due to a $37 million decrease in interest expense as a result of lower outstanding borrowings due to repayments during fiscal 2018, partially offset by a $60 million loss during the first six months of fiscal 2019 from our equity interest.
Provision for income taxes



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For each of the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, we recorded an income tax expense on discontinued operations of $4 million.
For the three and six months ended September 29, 2017, we recorded an income tax benefit on discontinued operations of $4 million and an income tax expense on discontinued operations of $37 million, respectively.
See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on impacts from the Act.
Segment operating results



We do not allocate to our operating segments certain operating expenses that we manage separately at the corporate level and are not used in evaluating the results of, or in allocating resources to, our segments.
See Note 15 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
Enterprise Security Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Revenue decreased $112 million, primarily due to a $100 million decrease in revenue as a result of the fiscal 2018 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Revenue decreased $202 million, primarily due to a $203 million decrease in revenue as a result of the fiscal 2018 divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions.
Operating income decreased $105 million primarily due to the divestiture of our WSS and PKI solutions which contributed $118 million to segment operating income in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
Consumer Digital Safety Segment



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Three Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Three Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Revenue increased $47 million due to a $58 million increase from our identity and information protection solutions, offset by a $11 million decrease from our consumer security products.
Revenue per customer increased whereas customer count decreased slightly.
Operating income increased $34 million, primarily due to increased revenue and decreased advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by increased allocated corporate costs.
Six Months Ended September 28, 2018 Compared with Six Months Ended September 29, 2017 



Revenue increased $118 million due to a $131 million increase from our identity and information protection solutions, offset by a $13 million decrease from our consumer security products.
Operating income increased $67 million, primarily due to increased revenue and decreased advertising and promotional expense, partially offset by increased allocated corporate costs.
LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND CASH REQUIREMENTS 



Liquidity



We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt, and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs.
34

As of September 28, 2018, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.4 billion, of which $698 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity, and generate investment returns.
We also have an undrawn credit facility of $1.0 billion which expires in May 2021.
Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including the payment of taxes, fund capital expenditures, service existing debt, and invest in business acquisitions.
As a part of our plan to deleverage our balance sheet, we may from time to time make optional repayments of our debt obligations, which may include repurchases of our outstanding debt, depending on various factors such as market conditions.
Historically this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of our common stock.
Cash flows



The following summarizes our cash flow activities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Cash from operating activities



Our cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2019 reflected a net loss of $68 million adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $305 million, and stock-based compensation of $210 million.
Our cash flows in the first six months of fiscal 2018 reflected a net loss of $145 million, adjusted by non-cash items, including amortization and depreciation of $328 million, stock-based compensation of $323 million, and a deferred tax benefit of $189 million.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities consisted primarily of a decrease of $286 million in accounts receivable in the first six months of fiscal 2019, reflecting higher collections versus billings.
Cash from investing activities



Our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 included capital expenditures of $95 million and payments for acquisitions of $17 million, net of cash acquired, partially offset by cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments of $99 million, while our investing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2018 consisted of capital expenditures of $72 million and net cash payments of $361 million for acquisitions, primarily related to the acquisitions of Fireglass Ltd. and Skycure Ltd., and purchases of short-term investments of $201 million.
Cash from financing activities



Our financing activities in the first six months of fiscal 2019 primarily consisted of payment of dividends and dividend equivalents of $110 million and tax withholding payments related to RSUs of $53 million, compared to $114 million and $83 million, respectively, in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
In addition, we repaid debt of $2.0 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
Cash requirements



Debt - As of September 28, 2018, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $5.1 billion, of which $600 million in principal is payable in the next twelve months, summarized as follows.
35

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Debt covenant compliance.
The Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and our revolving credit facility contain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and restrictions on subsidiary indebtedness, liens, stock repurchases and dividends (with exceptions permitting our regular quarterly dividend).
Our Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 also require us to file periodic reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) by specified deadlines.
As of September 28, 2018, we had not met the requirements in the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5, the revolving credit facility agreement, the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to deliver audited financial statements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 and file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for such period with the SEC.
In addition, we subsequently did not meet the requirements under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025 to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for our fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2018 with the SEC by the specified deadline.
On June 22, 2018, we reached an agreement with lenders to waive the financial reporting requirements under the Senior Term Loan agreements A-2, A-5 and the revolving credit facility agreement through October 27, 2018.
On October 26, 2018 we satisfied these requirements for our fiscal year ended March 30, 2018 by filing our Form 10-K for such period with the SEC.
The filing of our Form 10-K on October 26, 2018 and the simultaneous filing herewith of the Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended June 29, 2018 also satisfied our SEC reporting requirements for our year ended March 30, 2018 and our quarter ended June 29, 2018, respectively, under the Convertible Senior Notes agreements and the agreement for our 5.0% Senior Note due April 15, 2025.
Because we expected as of September 28, 2018 that we would comply with all of our debt covenants before any applicable grace periods as defined in the associated indentures for the 5% Notes and the Convertible Senior Notes passed and waivers expired, we have classified all of the associated outstanding debt as long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets except for the portion that is due in the twelve months following September 28, 2018.
Dividends.
On November 1, 2018, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2018.
Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
Stock repurchases.
As of September 28, 2018, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization was $800 million and does not have an expiration date.
Contractual obligations



The following is a schedule of our significant contractual obligations as of September 28, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)Interest payments were calculated based on the contractual terms of the related Senior Notes, Convertible Senior Notes and Senior Term Facilities.
Interest on variable rate debt was calculated using the interest rate in effect as of September 28, 2018.
See Note 8 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Senior Notes, Convertible Senior Notes and Senior Term Facilities.
(2)These amounts are associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services generally including agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.
The table above also includes agreements to purchase goods or services that have cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment.
The amounts under such contracts are included in the table above because management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely, and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar materials.
36

(3)These amounts represent the transition tax on previously untaxed foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries under the Act which may be paid in annual installments through July 2025.
(4)We have entered into various non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029.
The amounts in the table above exclude expected sublease income.
Therefore, $294 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from the contractual obligations table.
See Note 11 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.
See Note 16 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our indemnifications.
