Item 4.
Controls and Procedures 



(a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



The SEC defines the term “disclosure controls and procedures” to mean a company’s controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
“Disclosure controls and procedures” include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as 



33

appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management.
Our management (with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer) has conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act).
Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of the end of the period covered by this report.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we implemented certain internal controls related to the evaluation of our contracts and the assessment of the impact of the new revenue recognition standard on our financial statements to facilitate our adoption effective March 31, 2018.
In addition, we have made changes to certain internal controls to reflect new systems and processes that were implemented as a result of the adoption of the new revenue standard.
A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.
34
