Item 1.
Financial Statements



NORTONLIFELOCK INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited, in millions, except par value per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
3

NORTONLIFELOCK INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited, in millions, except per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Net income per share amounts may not add due to rounding.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4

NORTONLIFELOCK INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



(Unaudited, in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5

NORTONLIFELOCK INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(Unaudited, in millions, except per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6

NORTONLIFELOCK INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(Unaudited, in millions, except per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7

NORTONLIFELOCK INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited, in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
8

NORTONLIFELOCK INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 1.
Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies



Recent Corporate Name Change



In connection with the sale of certain assets of our Enterprise Security business as disclosed in Basis of presentation below, effective November 4, 2019, we changed our corporate name from Symantec Corporation to NortonLifeLock Inc.
On November 4, 2019, we completed the transaction.
Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we operate in one reportable segment.
The Enterprise Security business was part of our Enterprise Security segment.
Results of discontinued operations include all revenues and expenses directly derived from the Enterprise Security business, with the exception of revenues and associated costs of our ID Analytics solutions, which were formerly included in the Enterprise Security segment, and general corporate overhead which were previously allocated to the Enterprise Security segment but are not allocated to discontinued operations.
The assets acquired and liabilities to be sold to Broadcom, as specified in the August 8, 2019 definitive agreement, were classified as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, subject to changes set forth in the agreement.
See Notes 3 and 18 for additional information about the divestiture of our Enterprise Security business.
The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31.
Unless otherwise stated, references to three and six-month periods in this report relate to fiscal periods ended October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
The three and six months ended October 4, 2019 consisted of 13 and 27 weeks, respectively, whereas the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 consisted of 13 and 26 weeks, respectively.
Our 2020 fiscal year consists of 53 weeks and ends on April 3, 2020.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
Significant accounting policies



There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the six months ended October 4, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 5, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
9

Note 2.
Recent Accounting Standards



Recently adopted authoritative guidance



Leases.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
We currently do not have any finance leases.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.
The adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $182 million and $209 million, respectively, as of March 30, 2019 related to our operating leases.
The adoption of the standard also resulted in elimination of deferred rent liabilities of $17 million, as of March 30, 2019, which are now recorded as a reduction of the ROU assets.
Recently issued authoritative guidance not yet adopted



Credit Losses.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
Internal-Use Software.
In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance that clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in a cloud computing arrangement.
The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures.
Note 3.
There was no income from Veritas during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019.
Revenue from Veritas was $4 million and $9 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018.
Income from Veritas, net of taxes was $0 million and $5 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018.
We recorded a $665 million tax benefit in discontinued operations during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019 to remeasure the deferred tax assets associated with the tax basis of intellectual property held by our subsidiaries organized in Ireland.
We previously expected to recover the tax basis through normal operation of our Enterprise business, which is taxed at the Irish trading rate of 12.5%.
The following table presents significant non-cash items and capital expenditures of discontinued operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Note 18 for more information regarding the completion of the sale that occurred on November 4, 2019.
Note 4.
Revenues



Timing of revenue recognition



The following table provides our revenue disaggregated by the timing of recognition:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contract liabilities



The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019 was $427 million and $767 million, respectively.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at June 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018 was $443 million and $766 million, respectively.
Contract acquisition costs



We recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $1 million and $3 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $1 million and $2 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
There were no impairment losses recognized during the periods.
As of October 4, 2019, we had $626 million of remaining performance obligations, which does not include customer deposit liabilities of $390 million, of which we expect to recognize approximately 96% as revenue over the next twelve months.
11

Note 5.
Leases



We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029.
Our leases generally have terms that range from 1 year to 17 years for our facilities, 1 year to 6 years for equipment, and 1 year to 6 years for data center co-locations.
Some of our leases contain renewal options, escalation clauses, rent concessions, and leasehold improvement incentives.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
We have elected to not recognize a lease liability or ROU asset for short-term leases (leases with a term of twelve months or less that do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset).
Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
The interest rate we use to determine the present value of future payments is our incremental borrowing rate because the rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable.
Our incremental borrowing rate is a hypothetical rate for collateralized borrowings in economic environments where the leased asset is located based on credit rating factors.
Our operating lease assets also include adjustments for prepaid lease payments, lease incentives and initial direct costs.
Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance.
We elected the practical expedient whereby we record all lease components and the related minimum non-lease components as a single lease component.
Cash payments made for variable lease costs are not included in the measurement of our operating lease assets and liabilities.
Lease costs for minimum lease payments for operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The following summarizes our lease costs:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Rent expense under operating leases was $18 million and $37 million for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
Other information related to our operating leases was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Note 7 for additional cash flow information related to our operating leases.
As of October 4, 2019, the maturities of our lease liabilities, excluding lease liabilities associated with our discontinued operations, by fiscal year are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12

As of March 29, 2019, the minimum future rentals on non-cancelable operating leases, including leases associated with our discontinued operations and based on the previous lease accounting standard, by fiscal year were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 6.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets



Goodwill



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Intangible assets, net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Goodwill and intangible assets to be disposed of as a result of our agreement with Broadcom to sell certain assets of Enterprise Security business were included in assets of discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, and accordingly, are excluded from the tables above.
Amortization expense for purchased intangible assets is summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



13

As of October 4, 2019, future amortization expense related to intangible assets that have finite lives is as follows by fiscal year:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 7.
Supplementary Information (in millions)



Cash and cash equivalents:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other current assets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Property and equipment, net:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other long-term assets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



14

Short-term contract liabilities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other current liabilities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Long-term income taxes payable:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other expense, net:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Supplemental cash flow information:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 8.
Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements



For financial instruments measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are:



•Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
•Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in less active markets or model-derived valuations.
All significant inputs used in our valuations, such as 



15

discounted cash flows, are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated with observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
•Level 3: Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of assets or liabilities.
Financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis include our non-marketable equity investments, equity method investment and our long-term debt.
Non-marketable equity investments



As of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $186 million and $184 million, respectively.
Equity method investment



Our investment in equity securities that is accounted for using the equity method is included in Other long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and consists of our equity investment in DigiCert Parent Inc. (DigiCert) that had a carrying value of $11 million and $32 million at October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, respectively.
We recorded a loss from equity interests of $11 million and $22 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $34 million and $60 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The following table summarizes financial data from DigiCert which was provided to us on a three-month lag:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Current and long-term debt



As of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the total fair value of our current and long-term fixed rate debt was $4,020 million and $3,964 million, respectively.
The fair value of our variable rate debt approximated its carrying value.
16

Note 9.
Debt 



The following table summarizes components of our debt:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)The senior term facility bears interest at a rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin based on the current debt rating of our non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt and the underlying loan agreement.
The interest rates for the outstanding senior term loan are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On or after March 4, 2020, holders of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes have the option to require us to repurchase the notes, in cash, equal to the principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes.
Therefore, as of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the principal amount and associated unamortized discount and issuance costs of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes were classified within Current portion of long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of October 4, 2019, the future contractual maturities of debt by fiscal year are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Based on the closing price of our common stock of $23.48 on October 4, 2019, the if-converted value of our 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $200 million and the if-converted value of our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $188 million.
The following table sets forth total interest expense recognized related to our 2.5% and 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revolving credit facility



We have an unsecured revolving credit facility to borrow up to $1.0 billion through May 10, 2021.
Borrowings under the revolving facility bear interest at a floating rate of interest plus an applicable margin which is based on our senior unsecured credit agency rating.
We are obligated to pay commitment fees on the daily amount of the unused commitment at a rate based 



17

on our debt ratings.
As of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility.
Debt Covenant compliance



The Senior Term Loan A-5 agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios.
As of October 4, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.
Note 10.
As part of our foreign currency risk mitigation strategy, we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to twelve months in duration.
We exclude changes in forward points for the forward contracts from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
As of October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, the fair value of these contracts was insignificant.
During the six months ended October 4, 2019, a net gain of $2 million was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposure.
These forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments.
As of October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018, the fair value of these contracts was insignificant.
To mitigate losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties, we have entered into master netting arrangements with our counterparties that allow us to settle payments on a net basis.
The effect of netting on our derivative assets and liabilities was not material as of October 4, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
The notional amount of our outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts in U.S. dollar equivalent was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 11.
Restructuring, Transition and Other Costs



Our restructuring, transition and other costs consist primarily of severance, facilities, separation, transition and other related costs.
Severance costs generally include severance payments, outplacement services, health insurance coverage, and legal costs.
Such projects were completed by the end of fiscal 2019.
Fiscal 2020 Plan



On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a fiscal 2020 restructuring plan (the Fiscal 2020 Plan) to improve productivity and reduce complexity in the way we manage the business.
We expect to reduce net global headcount by approximately 7%.
We also plan to downsize, vacate or close certain facilities and data centers in connection with the restructuring plan.
These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2020.
As of October 4, 2019, we have incurred costs of $49 million related to our Fiscal 2020 Plan.
Fiscal 2019 Plan



In August 2018, we announced a restructuring plan (the Fiscal 2019 Plan) under which we incurred costs of $48 million as of October 4, 2019.
These actions were substantially completed in fiscal 2020.
Fiscal 2017 Plan



We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the Fiscal 2017 Plan), under which we reduced headcount and closed certain facilities.
These actions were completed in fiscal 2019 at a cumulative cost of $289 million related to our Fiscal 2017 Plan.
Restructuring, transition and other costs summary



Our restructuring, transition and other costs attributable to continuing operations are presented in the table below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In connection with the agreement to sell certain assets of our Enterprise Security business, a portion of our restructuring, transition and other costs were classified to discontinued operations for all periods presented.
In addition, for the six months ended October 4, 2019, there was additional tax expense recorded to account for uncertain tax positions related to the recent holding of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit) in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner (the Altera holding).
The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit.
In June 2019, the Ninth Circuit reversed the July 2015 decision of the U.S. Tax Court.
As a result of this decision, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $62 million in six months ended October 4, 2019.
On July 22, 2019, the taxpayer requested a rehearing before the full Ninth Circuit and may subsequently appeal from the Ninth Circuit to the Supreme Court.
As a result, the final outcome of the case is uncertain.
Note 13.
Stockholders' Equity



Stock repurchase program



During the six months ended October 4, 2019, we executed and settled repurchases of 25 million shares for $541 million in the open market at an average price of $21.85 per share.
In addition, repurchases of 1 million shares executed during fiscal 2019 settled during the six months ended October 4, 2019.
On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization to $1,600 million.
As of October 4, 2019, we had $1,600 million remaining under the authorization to be completed in future periods with no expiration date.
Accumulated other comprehensive loss



Components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



20

Note 14.
Employee Equity Incentive Plans



The following table sets forth the stock-based compensation expense recognized for our equity incentive plans:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes additional information related to our stock-based awards, including awards associated with our discontinued operations:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For certain employees, we settled fiscal 2019 bonuses in approximately 1 million RSUs.
These awards were granted and vested in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
As of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the total liability associated with liability-classified awards was $6 million and $22 million, respectively, which is presented in Accrued compensation and benefits in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of October 4, 2019, the total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs related to our unvested stock-based awards was $446 million, which will be recognized over an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 1.9 years.
21

Note 15.
Net Income Per Share



Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards.
Diluted loss per share was the same as basic loss per share for the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, as there was a loss from continuing operations in the period and inclusion of potentially issuable shares was anti-dilutive.
The components of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Net income per share amounts may not add due to rounding.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.
The conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018 as there was a loss from continuing operations in the period.
Note 16.
Segment and Geographic Information



Historically, we operated in two reportable segments: Enterprise Security and Consumer Cyber Safety.
The Enterprise Security segment focused on providing our Integrated Cyber Defense solutions to help business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
The Consumer Cyber Safety segment focused on providing cyber safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand to help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.
This transaction closed on November 4, 2019.
Accordingly, we now have one reportable segment.
The change has been reflected in our segment reporting for all periods presented.
The following table summarizes net revenues by significant products and services categories:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Consumer security products include Norton security, Norton Secure VPN, and other consumer security solutions.
Identity and information protection products include LifeLock identity theft protection and other information protection solutions.
Geographical information



Net revenues by geography are based on the billing addresses of our customers.
The following table represents net revenues by geographic area for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $427 million and $883 million during the three and six months ended October 4, 2019, respectively, and $425 million and $842 million during the three and six months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
No other individual country accounted for more than 10% of revenues.
Most of our assets as of October 4, 2019 and March 29, 2019 were attributable to our U.S. operations.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The table below represents our property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, by geographic area, based on the physical location of the asset, at the end of each period presented.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)No individual country represented more than 10% of the respective totals.
23

Our operating lease assets by geographic area, based on the physical location of the asset, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)



No individual country represented more than 10% of the respective totals.
Commitments and Contingencies



Purchase obligations



As of October 4, 2019, we had purchase obligations of $983 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services, including purchase obligations associated with our discontinued operations.
The amount of purchase obligations reflects estimated future payments as of October 4, 2019 according to the contract terms.
In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees, and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections.
We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers.
Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses.
Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial.
We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred.
In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in April 2018.
The SEC 



24

commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation.
The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict.
Securities Class Action and Derivative Litigation



Securities class action lawsuits, which have since been consolidated, were filed in May 2018 against us and certain of our former officers, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.
The lead plaintiff’s consolidated amended complaint alleged that, during a purported class period of May 11, 2017 to August 2, 2018, defendants made false and misleading statements in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a), and that certain individuals violated Section 20A, of the Securities Exchange Act.
Defendants filed motions to dismiss, which the Court granted in an order dated June 14, 2019.
Pursuant to that order, plaintiff filed a motion seeking leave to amend and a proposed first amended complaint on July 11, 2019.
The Court granted the motion in part on October 2, 2019 and the first amended complaint was filed on October 11, 2019.
The Court’s order dismissed certain claims and certain of our former officers.
The Court ordered defendants to answer by November 7.
No trial date has been set.
Purported shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our former officers and current and former directors in the U.S. District Courts for the District of Delaware and the Northern District of California, Delaware Chancery Court, and Delaware Superior Court, arising generally out of the same facts and circumstances as alleged in the securities class action and alleging claims for breach of fiduciary duty and related claims; these lawsuits include an action brought derivatively on behalf of our 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
The derivative actions are currently voluntarily stayed in light of the securities class action.
We have also received demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law.
We will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases and demands, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations.
GSA



During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Multiple Award Schedule Contract No.
GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.
As reported on the GSA’s publicly-available database, our total sales under the GSA Schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning January 2007 and ending September 2012.
We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation, and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased.
The government has also indicated they are going to pursue claims for certain sales to California, Florida, and New York as well as sales to the federal government through reseller GSA Schedule contracts, which could significantly increase our potential damages exposure.
In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against us related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York.
On July 18, 2014, the Court-imposed seal expired, and the government intervened in the lawsuit.
On September 16, 2014, the states of California and Florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of New York notified the Court that it would not intervene.
On October 3, 2014, the DOJ filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount.
On October 17, 2014, California and Florida combined their claims with those of the DOJ and the relator on behalf of New York in an Omnibus Complaint, and a First Amended Omnibus Complaint was filed on October 8, 2015; the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts.
On June 6, 2019, we filed a motion seeking summary judgment on all claims asserted by all plaintiffs, and the plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment on elements of liability on their claims.
Both motions are currently pending before the court and Symantec is currently unable to forecast the likely outcome of these motions.
This amount contemplates estimated losses from both the investigation of compliance with the terms of the GSA Schedule contract as well as possible violations of the False Claims Act.
25

Avila v. LifeLock et al



On August 29, 2019 the Ninth Circuit issued a mandate remanding a securities class action lawsuit, originally filed on July 22, 2015, against our subsidiary, LifeLock, as well as certain of LifeLock’s former officers (the “LifeLock Defendants”) for further proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the District of Arizona.
The Ninth Circuit had affirmed in part and reversed in part the August 21, 2017 decision of the District Court, which had dismissed the case with prejudice.
The complaint in the remanded action alleges that, during a purported class period of July 30, 2014 to July 21, 2015, a period that predates LifeLock’s acquisition by us, the LifeLock Defendants made false and misleading statements in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act.
The case is now back in the U.S. District Court for further proceedings.
Other



We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business.
Although adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur in one or more of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the possible loss or losses from each of these cases.
Note 18.
Subsequent Events 



Sale of equity method investment



On October 16, 2019, Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. (Clearlake), a private investment firm, and TA Associates, an existing investor of DigiCert and a private equity firm, completed an investment in DigiCert.
As a part of the transaction, Clearlake and TA became equal partners in DigiCert.
As a result, we received $378 million in cash for our equity investment in DigiCert.
As a result of the transaction, we expect to recognize a gain of approximately $310 million to $320 million, net of taxes.
In connection with the transaction, we expect to incur direct costs of $35 million to $40 million.
As a result of the transaction, we expect to recognize a gain of approximately $2 billion to $3 billion, net of taxes.
We expect to distribute the net proceeds from the Broadcom sale to our stockholders through a special dividend in the fourth quarter of our 2020 fiscal year.
In connection with the Broadcom sale, we entered into a transition services agreement under which we will provide assistance to Broadcom including, but not limited to, business support services and information technology services for a period of six months.
New debt financing



On November 4, 2019, we entered into a credit agreement with financial institutions, which provides a revolving line of credit of $1,000 million through October 2024, a 5-year term loan of $500 million, and a delayed 5-year term loan commitment of $750 million through September 15, 2020.
Interest on borrowings under the credit agreement can be based on a base rate or a London interbank offered rate (LIBOR) at our election.
Based on our debt ratings and our consolidated leverage ratios as determined in accordance with the credit agreement, loans borrowed bear interest, in the case of base rate loans, at a per annum rate equal to the applicable base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.125% to 0.75%, and in the case of LIBOR loans, LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.125% to 1.75%.
The unused revolving line of credit is subject to a commitment fee ranging from 0.125% to 0.30% per annum.
The principal amount of the term loan is repayable in quarterly installments on the last business day of each calendar quarter commencing with the quarter ended March 31, 2021 in an amount equal to 1.25% of the aggregate principal amount of the term loan and in the outstanding principal amount upon the October 2024 maturity date.
Dividends



On November 7, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock to be paid in December 2019.
All shares of common stock issued and outstanding and all RSUs and PRUs as of the record date will be entitled to the dividend and dividend equivalents, respectively.
Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
November 2019 Restructuring Plan



On November 5, 2019, in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise business, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the November 2019 Plan).
Actions under this plan will include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset impairments, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities.
These actions are expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
