Item 1.
Financial Statements



SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



(Unaudited, in millions, except par value per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)



Derived from audited financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
3

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



(Unaudited, in millions, except per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Net income (loss) per share may not add due to rounding.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)



(Unaudited, in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY



(In millions, except per share amounts)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
6

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited, in millions)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7

SYMANTEC CORPORATION



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 1.
Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies



Business



Symantec Corporation is a global leader in cyber security.
We provide cyber security products, services, and solutions.
Our Integrated Cyber Defense Platform helps business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity.
Our Cyber Safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.
Basis of presentation



The accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America (U.S.) for interim financial information.
These unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
The results of operations for the three months ended July 5, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the entire fiscal year.
We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31.
Unless otherwise stated, references to three-month periods in this report relate to fiscal periods ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018.
The three months ended July 5, 2019 consisted of 14 weeks, whereas the three months ended June 29, 2018 consisted of 13 weeks.
Our 2020 fiscal year consists of 53 weeks and ends on April 3, 2020.
Such estimates include, but are not limited to, the determination of stand-alone selling price for performance obligations, valuation of business combinations including acquired intangible assets and goodwill, loss contingencies, valuation of stock-based compensation, and the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes, including the measurement of uncertain tax positions.
Significant accounting policies



There have been no material changes to our significant accounting policies as of and for the three months ended July 5, 2019, except for those noted in Note 2 and Note 4, as compared to the significant accounting policies described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 29, 2019.
Note 2.
Recent Accounting Standards



Recently adopted authoritative guidance



Leases.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance on lease accounting which requires lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on their balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by operating leases and also requires disclosures designed to give users of financial statements information on the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
Most prominent among the changes in the standard is the recognition of right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases.
Under the standard, disclosures are required to meet the objective of enabling users of financial statements to assess the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
On March 30, 2019, the first day of our fiscal 2020, we adopted the new guidance using the alternative modified retrospective transition method under which we continue to apply the legacy lease accounting guidance, including its disclosure requirements, in comparative periods prior to fiscal 2020.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard that allowed us not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts are or contain leases, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases, and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases.
We currently do not have any finance leases.
We combine the lease and non-lease components in determining the operating lease assets and liabilities.
8

The adoption of the new lease accounting standard resulted in the recognition of ROU assets and lease liabilities of $182 million and $209 million, respectively, as of March 30, 2019 related to our operating leases.
The adoption of the standard also resulted in elimination of deferred rent liabilities of $17 million, as of March 30, 2019, which are now recorded as a reduction of the ROU assets.
Recently issued authoritative guidance not yet adopted



Credit Losses.
In June 2016, the FASB issued new authoritative guidance on credit losses which changes the impairment model for most financial assets and certain other instruments.
For trade receivables and other instruments, we will be required to use a new forward-looking “expected loss” model.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021.
Internal-Use Software.
In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance that clarifies the accounting for implementation costs in a cloud computing arrangement.
The new guidance aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
The standard will be effective for us in our first quarter of fiscal 2021, with early adoption permitted.
We are currently evaluating the adoption date and the impact of the adoption of this guidance on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures.
Note 3.
Revenues



Timing of revenue recognition



The following table provides our revenue disaggregated by the timing of recognition:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Contract liabilities



Contract liabilities by segment were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended July 5, 2019 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at March 29, 2019 was $920 million.
The amount of revenue recognized during the three months ended June 29, 2018 that was included within the contract liabilities balance at March 31, 2018 was $848 million.
Contract acquisition costs



During the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, we recognized amortization expense of capitalized contract acquisition costs of $28 million and $23 million, respectively.
There were no impairment losses recognized during the periods.
As of July 5, 2019, we had $2,506 million of remaining performance obligations, which does not include Consumer Cyber Safety customer deposit liabilities of approximately $416 million.
The approximate percentages expected to be recognized as revenue in the future are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Percentages may not add to 100% due to rounding.
Note 4.
Leases



We lease certain of our facilities, equipment, and data center co-locations under operating leases that expire on various dates through fiscal 2029.
Our leases generally have terms that range from 1 year to 17 years for our facilities, 1 year to 6 years for equipment, and 1 year to 6 years for data center co-locations.
Some of our leases contain renewal options, escalation clauses, rent concessions, and leasehold improvement incentives.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
We have elected to not recognize a lease liability or right-of-use (ROU) asset for short-term leases (leases with a term of twelve months or less that do not include an option to purchase the underlying asset).
Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date.
The interest rate we use to determine the present value of future payments is our incremental borrowing rate because the rate implicit in our leases is not readily determinable.
Our incremental borrowing rate is a hypothetical rate for collateralized borrowings in economic environments where the leased asset is located based on credit rating factors.
Our operating lease assets also include adjustments for prepaid lease payments, lease incentives and initial direct costs.
Certain lease contracts include obligations to pay for other services, such as operations and maintenance.
We elected the practical expedient whereby we record all lease components and the related minimum non-lease components as a single lease component.
Cash payments made for variable lease costs are not included in the measurement of our operating lease assets and liabilities.
Lease costs for minimum lease payments for operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The following summarizes our lease costs for the three months ended July 5, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Rent expense under operating leases was $19 million for the three months ended June 29, 2018.
Other information related to our operating leases was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See Note 6 for additional cash flow information related to our operating leases.
10

As of July 5, 2019, the maturities of our lease liabilities by fiscal year are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of March 29, 2019, the minimum future rentals on non-cancelable operating leases by fiscal year, based on the previous lease accounting standard, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 5.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets



Goodwill



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Intangible assets, net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11

Amortization expense for purchased intangible assets is summarized below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of July 5, 2019, future amortization expense related to intangible assets that have finite lives is as follows by fiscal year:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 6.
Supplementary Information (in millions)



Cash and cash equivalents:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other current assets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Property and equipment, net:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12

Other long-term assets:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Short-term contract liabilities:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Long-term income taxes payable:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other expense, net:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Supplemental cash flow information:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 7.
Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements



For financial instruments measured at fair value, fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are:



•Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
13

•Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in less active markets or model-derived valuations.
All significant inputs used in our valuations, such as discounted cash flows, are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated with observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
•Level 3: Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of assets or liabilities.
Financial instruments not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis include our non-marketable equity investments, equity method investment and our long-term debt.
Non-marketable equity investments



As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the carrying value of our non-marketable equity investments was $186 million and $184 million, respectively.
Equity method investment



Our investment in equity securities that is accounted for using the equity method is included in Other long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and consists of our equity investment in DigiCert Parent Inc. (DigiCert) that had a carrying value of $22 million and $32 million at July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, respectively.
We recorded a loss from equity interests of $11 million and $26 million during the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, respectively, in Other expense, net in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
This loss was reflected as a reduction in the carrying amount of our investment in equity interests in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The following table summarizes financial data from DigiCert which was provided to us on a three-month lag:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On July 9, 2019, DigiCert announced that Clearlake Capital Group, L.P. (Clearlake), a private investment firm, and TA Associates, an existing investor of DigiCert and a private equity firm, have reached a definitive agreement to make an investment in DigiCert.
As a part of the transaction, Clearlake and TA will become equal partners in DigiCert.
The transaction is expected to close in the second half of calendar year 2019, pending customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions.
14

Current and long-term debt



As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the total fair value of our current and long-term fixed rate debt was $4,029 million and $3,964 million, respectively.
The fair value of our variable rate debt approximated its carrying value.
Note 8.
Debt 



The following table summarizes components of our debt:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)The senior term facility bears interest at a rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a margin based on the current debt rating of our non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt and the underlying loan agreement.
The interest rates for the outstanding senior term loan are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



On or after March 4, 2020, holders of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes have the option to require us to repurchase the notes, in cash, equal to the principal amount and accrued and unpaid interest of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes.
Therefore, as of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the principal amount and associated unamortized discount and issuance costs of the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes were classified as Current portion of long-term debt in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of July 5, 2019, the future contractual maturities of debt by fiscal year are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Based on the closing price of our common stock of $25.00 on July 5, 2019, the if-converted value of our 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $245 million and the if-converted value of our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes exceeded the principal amount by approximately $281 million.
The following table sets forth total interest expense recognized related to our 2.5% and 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



15

Revolving credit facility



We have an unsecured revolving credit facility to borrow up to $1.0 billion through May 10, 2021.
Borrowings under the revolving facility bear interest at a floating rate of interest plus an applicable margin which is based on our senior unsecured credit agency rating.
We are obligated to pay commitment fees on the daily amount of the unused commitment at a rate based on our debt ratings.
As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under this revolving credit facility.
Debt Covenant compliance



The Senior Term Loan A-5 agreement contains customary representations and warranties, non-financial covenants for financial reporting, and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios.
As of July 5, 2019, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.
Note 9.
As part of our foreign currency risk mitigation strategy, we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to twelve months in duration.
As of July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, the fair value of these contracts was insignificant.
During the three months ended July 5, 2019, the net gain recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) was insignificant.
We also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposure.
These forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments.
As of July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, the fair value of these contracts was insignificant.
To mitigate losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties, we have entered into master netting arrangements with our counterparties that allow us to settle payments on a net basis.
The effect of netting on our derivative assets and liabilities was not material as of July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018.
The notional amount of our outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts in U.S. dollar equivalent was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 10.
Restructuring, Transition and Other Costs



Our restructuring, transition and other costs consist primarily of severance, facilities, transition and other related costs.
Severance costs generally include severance payments, outplacement services, health insurance coverage, and legal costs.
Such projects were completed by the end of fiscal 2019.
Fiscal 2019 Plan



In August 2018, we announced a restructuring plan (the Fiscal 2019 Plan) under which we will initiate targeted reductions of up to approximately 8% of our global workforce.
We estimate that we will incur total costs in connection with the Fiscal 2019 



16

Plan of approximately $50 million, primarily for severance and termination benefits.
These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2020.
As of July 5, 2019, we have incurred costs of $47 million related to our Fiscal 2019 Plan.
Fiscal 2017 Plan



We initiated a restructuring plan in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to reduce complexity by means of long-term structural improvements (the Fiscal 2017 Plan), under which we reduced headcount and closed certain facilities.
These actions were completed in fiscal 2019 at a cumulative cost of $289 million related to our Fiscal 2017 Plan.
Restructuring, transition and other costs summary



Our restructuring, transition and other costs are presented in the table below:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 11.
The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit).
In June 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the July 2015 decision of the U.S. Tax Court.
As a result of this decision, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $62 million in three months ended July 5, 2019.
On July 22, 2019, the taxpayer requested a rehearing before the full Ninth Circuit and may subsequently appeal from the Ninth Circuit to the Supreme Court.
As a result, the final outcome of the case is uncertain.
The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits for the three months ended July 5, 2019 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of July 5, 2019, $94 million of the gross unrecognized tax benefit was recorded in Deferred income tax liabilities and $417 million was recorded in Long-term income taxes payable.
Note 12.
Stockholders' Equity



Dividends



On August 8, 2019, we announced a cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock to be paid in September 2019.
Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval of our Board of Directors.
Stock repurchase program



During the three months ended July 5, 2019, we executed and settled repurchases of 25 million shares for $541 million in the open market at an average price of $21.85 per share.
In addition, repurchases of 1 million shares executed during fiscal 2019 settled during the three months ended July 5, 2019.
As of July 5, 2019, we had $507 million remaining under the authorization to be completed in future periods with no expiration date.
Accumulated other comprehensive loss



Components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 13.
Stock-Based Compensation



Stock-based compensation expense



The following table sets forth the stock-based compensation expense recognized for our equity incentive plans:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18

The following table summarizes additional information related to our stock-based compensation:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Liability-classified awards settled in shares



For certain employees, we settled fiscal 2019 bonuses in approximately 1 million RSUs.
These awards were granted and vested in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
As of July 5, 2019 and March 29, 2019, the total liability associated with liability-classified awards was $4 million and $22 million, respectively, which is presented in Accrued compensation and benefits in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of July 5, 2019, the total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs, net of estimated forfeitures, were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 14.
Net Income Per Share



Basic income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share also includes the incremental effect of dilutive potentially issuable common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.
Dilutive potentially issuable common shares includes the dilutive effect of the shares underlying convertible debt and employee equity awards.
19

The components of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1) Net income per share amounts may not add due to rounding.
Under the treasury stock method, our Convertible Senior Notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share when our average stock price for the period exceeds approximately $16.77 per share for the 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes and $20.41 per share for the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes.
The conversion feature of both notes was anti-dilutive during the three months ended June 29, 2018 as there was a loss from continuing operations in the period.
Note 15.
Segment and Geographic Information



We operate in the following two reportable segments, which are the same as our operating segments:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



•Consumer Cyber Safety.
Our Consumer Cyber Safety segment focuses on providing cyber safety solutions under our Norton LifeLock brand to help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks.
20

There were no inter-segment sales for the periods presented.
These unallocated expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation expense; amortization of intangible assets; restructuring, transition and other costs.
The following table provides a reconciliation of our total reportable segments’ operating income to our total operating income:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The following table summarizes net revenues by significant products and services categories:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



From time to time, changes in our product hierarchy cause changes to the product categories above.
When changes occur, we recast historical amounts to match the current product hierarchy.
Endpoint and information protection products include endpoint security, advanced threat protection, information protection solutions, and their related support services.
Network and web security products include network security, web security, and cloud security solutions and their related support services.
Other products and services primarily consist of email security products, managed security services, consulting, and other professional services.
Consumer security products include Norton security, Norton Secure VPN, and other consumer security solutions.
Identity and information protection products include LifeLock identity theft protection and other information protection solutions.
21

Geographical information



Net revenues by geography are based on the billing addresses of our customers.
The following table represents net revenues by geographic area for the periods presented:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Americas include U.S., Canada and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan.
Revenues from customers inside the U.S. were $754 million and $688 million during the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, respectively.
No other individual country accounted for more than 10% of revenues.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The table below represents our property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, by geographic area, based on the physical location of the asset, at the end of each period presented.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(1)No individual country represented more than 10% of the respective totals.
Significant customers



In the three months ended July 5, 2019 and June 29, 2018, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
Customers, which are distributors, that accounted for over 10% of our net accounts receivable were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



22

Note 16.
Commitments and Contingencies



Purchase obligations



As of July 5, 2019, we had purchase obligations of $1,107 million associated with agreements for purchases of goods or services.
Management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely, and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms.
In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees, and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections.
We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers.
Such indemnification agreements might not be subject to maximum loss clauses.
Historically, payments made under these provisions have been immaterial.
We monitor the conditions that are subject to indemnification to identify if a loss has occurred.
In connection with the Audit Committee Investigation, we voluntarily contacted the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in April 2018.
The SEC commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation.
The outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict.
Securities Class Action and Derivative Litigation



Securities class action lawsuits, which have since been consolidated, were filed in May 2018 against us and certain of our former officers, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.
The lead plaintiff’s consolidated amended complaint alleged that, during a purported class period of May 11, 2017 to August 2, 2018, defendants made false and misleading statements in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a), and that certain individuals violated Section 20A, of the Securities Exchange Act.
Defendants filed motions to dismiss, which the Court granted in an order dated June 14, 2019.
Pursuant to that order, plaintiff was permitted to file a motion seeking leave to amend its claims.
Plaintiff filed that motion on July 11, 2019 and defendants are opposing that motion.
Purported shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed against Symantec and certain of our former officers and current and former directors in the U.S. District Courts for the District of Delaware and the Northern District of California, Delaware Chancery Court, and Delaware Superior Court, arising generally out of the same facts and circumstances as alleged in the securities class action and alleging claims for breach of fiduciary duty and related claims; these lawsuits include an action brought derivatively on behalf of Symantec’s 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
The derivative actions are currently voluntarily stayed in light of the securities class action.
We have also received demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under Delaware law.
We will 



23

continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases and demands, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations.
GSA



During the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the Commercial Litigation Branch of the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Division and the Civil Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Multiple Award Schedule Contract No.
GS-35F-0240T effective January 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices.
As reported on the GSA’s publicly-available database, our total sales under the GSA Schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning January 2007 and ending September 2012.
We have fully cooperated with the government throughout its investigation, and in January 2014, representatives of the government indicated that their initial analysis of our actual damages exposure from direct government sales under the GSA schedule was approximately $145 million; since the initial meeting, the government’s analysis of our potential damages exposure relating to direct sales has increased.
The government has also indicated they are going to pursue claims for certain sales to California, Florida, and New York as well as sales to the federal government through reseller GSA Schedule contracts, which could significantly increase our potential damages exposure.
In 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against Symantec related to compliance with the GSA Schedule contract and contracts with California, Florida, and New York.
On July 18, 2014, the Court-imposed seal expired, and the government intervened in the lawsuit.
On September 16, 2014, the states of California and Florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of New York notified the Court that it would not intervene.
On October 3, 2014, the DOJ filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount.
On October 17, 2014, California and Florida combined their claims with those of the DOJ and the relator on behalf of New York in an Omnibus Complaint, and a First Amended Omnibus Complaint was filed on October 8, 2015; the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts.
This amount contemplates estimated losses from both the investigation of compliance with the terms of the GSA Schedule contract as well as possible violations of the False Claims Act.
Other



We are involved in a number of other judicial and administrative proceedings that are incidental to our business.
Although adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur in one or more of the cases, it is not possible to estimate the possible loss or losses from each of these cases.
Note 17.
Subsequent Events



Fiscal 2020 Plan



On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors approved a fiscal 2020 restructuring plan to improve productivity and reduce complexity in the way we manage the business.
We expect to reduce net global headcount by approximately 7%.
We also plan to downsize, vacate or close certain facilities and data centers in connection with the restructuring plan.
These actions are expected to be completed in fiscal 2020.
Stock repurchase program



On August 6, 2019, our Board of Directors increased the share repurchase authorization to $1,600 million.
The transaction is expected to close before the end of calendar year 2019, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
25
