 Item 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
3 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
6 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(unaudited) 



1.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2.
Revenue 



We account for revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 606: Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
We have reclassified sales of labels and other recurring revenue items related to restaurant solutions, which includes extended warranty and service contracts, and technical support services, previously included in TSG to Restaurant Solutions for all periods presented in the tables below.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



8 



Contract balances 



Our contract liabilities consist of customer pre-payments and deferred revenue.
Customer prepayments are reported as “Accrued Liabilities” in current liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Customer prepayments represent customer payments made in advance of performance obligations in instances where credit has not been extended and are recognized as revenue when the performance obligation is complete.
Deferred revenue is reported separately in current liabilities and non-current liabilities and consists of our extended warranty contracts, technical support for our restaurant solution terminals, prepaid subscription revenue for our BOHA!
software, EPICENTRAL™ maintenance contracts and testing service contracts, and is recognized as revenue as (or when) we perform under the contract.
We do not have any contract asset balances as of September 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
For the first nine months of 2019, we recognized revenue of $489 thousand related to our contract liabilities at December 31, 2018.
Total contract liabilities consist of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Remaining performance obligations 



Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of September 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.3 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $4.1 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.1 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
3.
Note receivable 



The note receivable balance relates to a loan given to a third party and repayment is expected to occur in 12 months or less.
The note receivable has an interest rate of 4.5% and is due in February 2020.
Notes receivable are stated at unpaid balances and interest income is recognized on the accrual method.
As of September 30, 2019, we have no allowances for loan losses, unamortized deferred loan fees or unearned discounts.
4.
Inventories, net 



The components of inventories, net were: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



5.
9 



The following table summarizes the activity recorded in the accrued product warranty liability during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of September 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability was classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $45 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
6. Credit Facility 



We maintain a credit facility (the “TD Bank Credit Facility”) with TD Bank N.A.
(“TD Bank”), which provides for a $20 million revolving credit line.
The TD Bank Credit Facility imposes certain quarterly financial covenants on us and restricts, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness and the creation of other liens.
We were not in compliance with one of our financial covenants of the TD Bank Credit Facility at September 30, 2019.
On November 6, 2019, we obtained a waiver from TD Bank for compliance with this financial covenant, which pertains to operating cash flow to total debt service (the “OCF”) at September 30, 2019 and amended the definition of interest expense to exclude fees paid on unused borrowings under the revolving credit line, which is used to calculate total debt service in the OCF.
Following the waiver, we had borrowings available under the TD Bank Credit Facility of $20 million.
We ended the third quarter of 2019 with $1.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, of which $0.2 million was held by our U.K. subsidiary, and no debt outstanding.
7.
Earnings per share 



The following table sets forth the reconciliation of basic weighted average shares outstanding and diluted weighted average shares outstanding: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



10 



The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period, as the inclusion of these stock awards in the computation of diluted earnings would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 326 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 462 thousand and 149 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
8.
Shareholders’ equity 



For the three months ended September 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $672 thousand, which was paid on September 16, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on August 20, 2019.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $665 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
Dividends declared and paid totaled $2.0 million, or $0.27 per share for both the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
9.
Leases 



ASU 2016-02, “Leases”, which was codified in, and is referred to in this Quarterly Report as, ASC 842, became effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
The adoption requires a modified retrospective transition approach, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application.
An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application.
The Company has elected to adopt the standard using the effective date, January 1, 2019, as its date of initial application.
Consequently, financial information for prior periods will not be updated, and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for based on existing guidance for operating leases.
If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing.
If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating.
We have elected certain practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption.
We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019.
Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs.
We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases.
We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases.
The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability.
The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings.
We enter into lease agreements for the use of real estate space and certain other equipment under operating leases and we have no financing leases.
We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception.
Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Lease right of use assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.
Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of one year to eight years, some of which include options to extend.
The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year.
The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Operating costs include short-term lease costs which were immaterial during the period.
The following information represents supplemental disclosure for the statement of cash flows related to operating leases (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following summarizes additional information related to our leases as of September 30, 2019: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The maturity of the Company’s operating lease liabilities as of September 30, 2019 are as follows (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Prior to the adoption of ASC 842, rental commitments on an undiscounted basis were approximately $4.3 million at December 31, 2018 under non-cancelable operating leases and were payable as follows: $1.0 million in 2019; $1.0 million in 2020; $0.7 million in 2021; $0.4 million in 2022, $0.3 million in 2023 and $0.9 million thereafter.
10.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we recorded an income tax benefit of $54 thousand at an effective tax rate of -4.3%, compared to an income tax provision during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 of $1.1 million at an effective tax rate of 19.2%.
The effective tax rate for the both the third quarter of 2019 and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was unusually low and a benefit as it included the foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) deduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) as well as near breakeven pre-tax income in the second and third quarters of 2019.
The FDII deduction was not included in the effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2018 or nine months ended September 30, 2018, as the interpretive guidance for the deduction was not yet released.
During the third quarter of 2019, we recognized $25 thousand of previously unrecognized tax benefits as the statute of limitations on the use of our 2015 R&D credits expired during the third quarter of 2019.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets to reduce the future income tax benefits to expected realizable amounts.
The adoption of ASU 2018-02 did not have an impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
12 



 Item 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS      



The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
26 



 Item 1A.
In 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) voted to depart from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly known as “Brexit” and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U.
The U.K. is currently negotiating the terms of Brexit, the negotiation period of which has now been extended up to January 31, 2020, unless further extension is agreed to by the parties.
We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U.
legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U.
with or without a withdrawal agreement.
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2019 regarding our internal controls over user access to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and to adequately restrict user access to appropriate personnel.
Specifically, the provisioning and user recertification controls are not designed to ensure users maintain proper segregation of duties and therefore could have inappropriate access rights.
Additionally, we identified a material weakness in controls over key spreadsheets supporting our accounting records.
Specifically, we did not design adequate controls to address the completeness and accuracy of information included in key spreadsheets.
As a result of these material weaknesses, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2018.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 



On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we purchased no shares of our common stock.
As of September 30, 2019, $3 million remains authorized for future repurchase under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
The following table summarizes the repurchase of our common stock in the three months ended September 30, 2019: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



27 



 Item 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES      



None.
Item 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES      



Not applicable.
Item 5.
OTHER INFORMATION      



None.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



28 



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



29
