 Item 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
3 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
6 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(unaudited) 



1.
Basis of presentation 



The accompanying unaudited financial statements of TransAct Technologies Incorporated (the “Company") have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2.
Inventories, net 



The components of inventories, net are: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



3.
The following table summarizes the activity recorded in the accrued product warranty liability during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of September 30, 2018, $197 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability is classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $98 thousand is classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
7 



4.
Earnings per share 



The following table sets forth the reconciliation of basic weighted average shares outstanding and diluted weighted average shares outstanding: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 147 thousand and 382 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were 149 thousand and 404 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
5.
Shareholders’ equity 



Changes in shareholders’ equity for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were as follows (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months ended September 30, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $665 thousand, which was paid on September 14, 2018 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on August 20, 2018.
For the three months ended September 30, 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $661 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, dividends declared and paid totaled $2.0 million, or $0.27 per share, and $1.9 million, or $0.26 per share, respectively.
6.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we recorded an income tax provision of $1.06 million at an effective tax rate of 19.2%, compared to an income tax provision during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $1.66 million at an effective tax rate of 31.4%.
We expect our annual effective tax rate for 2018 to be between 19% and 20%.
The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was lower than the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 due to the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Reform Act") enacted on December 22, 2017.
8 



On December 22, 2017, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
SAB 118 provides a measurement period, not to exceed one year from the enactment of the Tax Reform Act.
The Company has not recorded any impacts of GILTI or BEAT in its consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
During the third quarter of 2018, we recognized $28 thousand of previously unrecognized tax benefits as the statute of limitations on the use of our 2014 R&D credits expired during the third quarter of 2018.
As of September 30, 2018, we have $14 thousand of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain.
7.
Accounting pronouncements 



The following accounting pronouncements will be adopted in future reporting periods: 



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors).
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for similar to existing guidance for operating leases today.
ASU 2016-02 supersedes the previous leases standard, ASC 840, Leases, and is effective for public entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and for interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company intends to elect the package of practical expedients and currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption of Topic 842.
9 



The following accounting pronouncements were adopted during 2018: 



  1)   Revenue recognition:     



ASU No.
2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers” and its related amendments (collectively, ASC 606) are effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein.
This ASU is intended to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue by removing inconsistencies in revenue requirements; providing a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improving comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions and capital markets; and providing more useful information to users of financial statements through improved revenue disclosure requirements.
Entities have the option of using either a full retrospective approach or modified retrospective approach to adopt the amended guidance.
We adopted ASC 606 effective January 1, 2018 and elected the modified retrospective approach.
The results for periods before 2018 were not adjusted for the new standard and no cumulative effective for the change in accounting was recognized through retained earnings at the date of adoption.
Periods prior to January 1, 2018 



The Company’s revenue recognition method prior to the adoption of ASC 606 can be found under Note 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies within the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017.
Periods commencing January 1, 2018 



In accordance with ASC 606, a performance obligation is a promise in a contract with a customer to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer.
Some of our contracts with customers contain a single performance obligation, while other contracts contain multiple performance obligations (most commonly when contracts include product and extended warranties).
A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
When there are multiple performance obligations within a contract, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its standalone selling price.
The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which the Company will be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer.
To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, such as price protection, reserves for returns and other allowances, the Company estimates the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing either the “expected value” method or the “most likely amount” method depending on the nature of the variable consideration.
The transaction price is recognized upon shipment of the order when control of the goods is transferred to the customer and at the time the performance obligation is fulfilled.
We also sell a software solution, EPICENTRAL™, that enables casino operators to create promotional coupons and marketing messages and to print them in real-time at the slot machine.
EPICENTRALTM is primarily comprised of both a software component, which is licensed to the customer, and a hardware component.
EPICENTRAL™ software and hardware are integrated to deliver the system's full functionality.
The transaction prices from EPICENTRAL™ software license and hardware are recognized upon installation and formal acceptance by the customer when control of the license is transferred to the customer.
For out-of-warranty repairs, the transaction price is recognized after completion of the repair work is completed and the printer or terminal is returned to the customer, as control of the product is transferred to the customer.
For our separately priced extended warranty, technical support for our restaurant solution terminals and maintenance agreements (including free one-year maintenance received by the customers upon completion of EPICENTRAL™ installation) revenue is recognized over time as the customer receives the benefit.
The transaction price from the maintenance services is recognized ratably over time, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer.
For extended warranties, the transaction price is recognized ratably over the warranty period, using output methods, as control of the services is transferred to the customer.
The Company sells the performance obligations separately and has established standalone selling prices for its products and services.
In the case of an overall price discount, the discount is applied to each performance obligation proportionately based on standalone selling price.
To determine the standalone selling price for initial EPICENTRAL™ installations, the Company uses the adjusted market assessment approach.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in accounting policies and financial statement impact of adopting ASC 606 



Except for the changes below, we have consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
As noted above, we adopted ASC 606 using the modified retrospective approach which allows the Company to record any changes using the cumulative effect.
The adoption of the ASC 606 did not require the Company to record an adjustment to retained earnings at January 1, 2018 and did not have an impact on the consolidated income statement during the first nine months of 2018, basic or diluted earnings per share, consolidated statement of cash flows or consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2018.
The Company applied the practical expedient for contracts with customers for a term of twelve months or less, in accordance with ASC 340-40-25-4, which allows TransAct to continue to expense sales commissions as incurred, since the expected amortization period of the cost to obtain a contract is less than 12 months.
No amounts were capitalized as of the adoption of ASC 606 or as of September 30, 2018.
Contract balances 



Our contract liabilities consist of customer pre-payments and deferred revenue.
Deferred revenue is reported separately in current liabilities and non-current liabilities and consists of our extended warranty contracts, technical support for our restaurant solution terminals, EPICENTRAL™ maintenance contracts and testing service contracts, and is recognized as revenue as (or when) we perform under the contract.
The increase in current and non-current deferred revenue is due to the sale of extended warranties and technical support for our restaurant solution terminals.
We do not have any contract asset balances as of September 30, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
In the first nine months of 2018, we recognized revenue of $587 thousand related to our contract liabilities at January 1, 2018.
Total contract liabilities consist of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Remaining performance obligations 



Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of September 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $6.0 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $5.5 million of our remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.4 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations recognized within the next 36 months.
11 



  1)   Stock compensation:     



In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, "Compensation-Stock Compensation: Scope of modification accounting".
ASU 2017-09 provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in Topic 718.
ASU No.
2017-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017.
The amendments are applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date.
We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2018 and the adoption has not resulted in a change to our financial statements.
12 



 Item 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     



The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
Item 1A.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors previously disclosed in that Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing our Company.
25 



Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 



On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we purchased 156,410 shares of our common stock for $2.0 million at an average price per share of $12.78.
As of September 30, 2018, $3.0 million remains authorized for future repurchase under the Stock Repurchase Program.
The following table summarizes the repurchase of our common stock in the three months ended September 30, 2018: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Item 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES     



None.
Item 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES     



Not applicable.
Item 5.
OTHER INFORMATION     



None.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



26 



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



27
