PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION 



 Item 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS      



The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
26 



 Item 1A.
RISK FACTORS      



Information regarding risk factors appears under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
In 2016, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) voted to depart from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly known as “Brexit” and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U.
The U.K. is currently negotiating the terms of Brexit, the negotiation period of which has now been extended up to January 31, 2020, unless further extension is agreed to by the parties.
We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U.
legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U.
The actual effects of Brexit, which may be negative for our business, will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, the final results of the Brexit negotiations and whether the U.K. departs the E.U.
with or without a withdrawal agreement.
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting have been identified, and if we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified report thereon, we could be materially adversely affected.
Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of September 30, 2019 regarding our internal controls over user access to ensure appropriate segregation of duties and to adequately restrict user access to appropriate personnel.
Specifically, the provisioning and user recertification controls are not designed to ensure users maintain proper segregation of duties and therefore could have inappropriate access rights.
Additionally, we identified a material weakness in controls over key spreadsheets supporting our accounting records.
Specifically, we did not design adequate controls to address the completeness and accuracy of information included in key spreadsheets.
As a result of these material weaknesses, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2018.
Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 



On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
Under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program, we are authorized to repurchase up to $5 million of our outstanding shares of common stock from time to time in the open market through December 31, 2019 at prevailing market prices based on market conditions, share price and other factors.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, we purchased no shares of our common stock.
As of September 30, 2019, $3 million remains authorized for future repurchase under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
The following table summarizes the repurchase of our common stock in the three months ended September 30, 2019: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



27 



 Item 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES      



None.
Item 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES      



Not applicable.
Item 5.
OTHER INFORMATION      



None.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



28
