 Item 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS      



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
3 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
4 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
5 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
6 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY 



(unaudited) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
7 



TRANSACT TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED 



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(unaudited) 



1.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP to be included in full year financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair statement of the results for the periods presented have been included and are of a normal recurring nature.
These interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2.
Revenue 



We account for revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 606: Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Contract balances 



Our contract liabilities consist of customer pre-payments and deferred revenue.
Customer prepayments are reported as “Accrued Liabilities” in current liabilities in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Customer prepayments represent customer payments made in advance of performance obligations in instances where credit has not been extended and are recognized as revenue when the performance obligation is complete.
Deferred revenue is reported separately in current liabilities and non-current liabilities and consists of our extended warranty contracts, technical support for our restaurant solution terminals, prepaid subscription revenue for our BOHA!
software, EPICENTRAL™ maintenance contracts and testing service contracts, and is recognized as revenue as (or when) we perform under the contract.
We do not have any contract asset balances as of June 30, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
For the first six months of 2019, we recognized revenue of $309 thousand related to our contract liabilities at December 31, 2018.
Total contract liabilities consist of the following: 



8 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Remaining performance obligations 



Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of firm orders for which a good or service has not been delivered to our customer.
As of June 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $4.3 million.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on $3.8 million of its remaining performance obligations within the next 12 months, $0.4 million within the next 24 months and the balance of these remaining performance obligations within the next 36 months.
3.
Inventories, net 



The components of inventories, net were: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



4.
The following table summarizes the activity recorded in the accrued product warranty liability during the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of June 30, 2019, $176 thousand of the accrued product warranty liability were classified as current in "Accrued liabilities" in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and the remaining $48 thousand was classified as non-current in "Other liabilities".
9 



5.
Earnings per share 



The following table sets forth the reconciliation of basic weighted average shares outstanding and diluted weighted average shares outstanding: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The computation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of the potential exercise of stock awards, including stock options and restricted stock units, when the average market price of the common stock is lower than the exercise price of the related stock award during the period.
These outstanding stock awards are not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would be anti-dilutive.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 542 thousand and 196 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, there were 542 thousand and 147 thousand, respectively, of potentially dilutive shares consisting of stock awards that were excluded from the calculation of earnings per diluted share.
6.
Shareholders’ equity 



For the three months ended June 30, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share, totaling $671 thousand, which was paid on June 14, 2019 to common shareholders of record at the close of business on May 20, 2019.
For the three months ended June 30, 2018, dividends declared and paid totaled $663 thousand, or $0.09 per share.
Dividends declared and paid totaled $1.3 million, or $0.18 per share for both the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
7.
Leases 



ASU 2016-02, “Leases”, which was codified in, and is referred to in this Report as, ASC 842, became effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
The adoption requires a modified retrospective transition approach, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application.
An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application.
The Company has elected to adopt the standard using the effective date, January 1, 2019, as its date of initial application.
Consequently, financial information will not be updated, and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019.
The new standard requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, respectively.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
Leases with a term of 12 months or less will be accounted for based on existing guidance for operating leases.
If risks and rewards are conveyed without the transfer of control, the lease is treated as financing.
If the lessor does not convey risks and rewards or control, the lease is treated as operating.
We have elected certain practical expedients available under ASC 842 upon adoption.
We have applied the practical expedient which allows prospective transition to ASC 842 on January 1, 2019.
Under this transition practical expedient, we did not reassess lease classification, embedded leases or initial direct costs.
We have applied the practical expedient for short-term leases.
We have lease agreements that include lease and non-lease components, and we have not elected the practical expedients to combine these components for any of our leases.
The adoption of ASC 842 had no effect on our Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Upon adoption of ASC 842, we recorded a $3.7 million right-of-use asset and a $3.9 million lease liability.
The adoption of the new standard had no impact on retained earnings.
10 



We enter into lease agreements for the use of real estate space and certain other equipment under operating leases and we have no financing leases.
We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception.
Right of use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Lease right of use assets and liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company determines its incremental borrowing rate by using the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.
Our lease right of use assets exclude lease incentives.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of one year to eight years, some of which include options to extend.
The majority of our leases with options to extend provide for extensions of up to five years with the ability to terminate the lease within one year.
The exercise of lease renewal options is at our sole discretion and our lease right of use assets and liabilities reflect only the options we are reasonably certain that we will exercise.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Operating lease expense for the three and six months ending June 30, 2019 was $254 thousand and $509 thousand, respectively.
The following information represents supplemental disclosure for the statement of cash flows related to operating leases (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following summarizes additional information related to our leases: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The maturity of the Company’s operating lease liabilities as of June 30, 2019 are as follows (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Prior to the adoption of ASC 842, rental commitments on an undiscounted basis were approximately $4.3 million at December 31, 2018 under non-cancelable operating leases and were payable as follows: $1.0 million in 2019; $1.0 million in 2020; $0.7 million in 2021; $0.4 million in 2022, $0.3 million in 2023 and $0.9 million thereafter.
8.
For the six months ended June 30, 2019, we recorded an income tax provision of $89 thousand at an effective tax rate of 8.7%, compared to an income tax provision during the six months ended June 30, 2018 of $483 thousand at an effective tax rate of 20.4%.
The effective tax rate for the both the second quarter of 2019 and six months ended June 30, 2019 was lower as it included the foreign-derived intangible income (“FDII”) deduction under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Reform Act”) as well as near breakeven pre-tax income in the second quarter of 2019.
The FDII deduction was not included in the effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2018 or six months ended June 30, 2018 as the interpretive guidance for the deduction was not yet released.
We expect that $25 thousand of the $104 thousand of unrecognized tax benefits will reverse in 2019 upon the expiration of the statute of limitations.
The Company maintains a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets where realization is not certain.
The adoption of ASU 2018-02 did not have an impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
12 



 Item 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS      



The Company may, in the ordinary course of business, become a party to litigation involving collection matters, contract claims and other legal proceedings relating to the conduct of its business.
Item 1A.
In 2016, the United Kingdom voted to depart from the European Union, known as Brexit and subsequently notified the European Council of its intention to leave the E.U.
and began to negotiate the terms of the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U.
upon exit.
We have taken certain actions in response to Brexit and in anticipation of E.U.
legal requirements and the U.K.’s separation from the E.U.
The actual effects of Brexit will depend upon many factors, including the final results of the Brexit negotiations.
24 



Item 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 



On March 1, 2018, our Board of Directors approved the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
During the six months ended June 30, 2019, we purchased no shares of our common stock.
As of June 30, 2019, $3 million remains authorized for future repurchase under the 2018 Stock Repurchase Program.
The following table summarizes the repurchase of our common stock in the three months ended June 30, 2019: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Item 3.
DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES      



None.
Item 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES      



Not applicable.
Item 5.
OTHER INFORMATION      



None.
Item 6.
EXHIBITS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



25 



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



26
