Item 1.
Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
1 



Index  



TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
2 



Index  



 TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited).
3 



Index  



TAITRON COMPONENTS INCORPORATED 



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) 



1 – SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 



Overview of Business 



In 1989, we were formed and incorporated in California.
We maintain a majority-owned subsidiary in Mexico (since 1998) and two divisions in each of Taiwan (since 1998) and China (since 2005).
Our Mexico location closed all operations in May 2013 (final closure is pending sale of our local 15,000 sq.
Our China location also serves as the engineering design support center responsible for arranging pre-production scheduling and mass production runs with joint venture partners for our projects, making component datasheets and test specifications, preparing samples, monitoring quality of shipments and performing failure analysis reports.
Basis of Presentation 



The unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all wholly owned divisions, including its 60% majority-owned subsidiary, Taitron Components Mexico, S.A. de C.V. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 8 of Regulation S-X.
Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements.
Operating results for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of financial results for the full year.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Certain amounts in the prior year condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
New Accounting Pronouncements 



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new accounting standard on leasing.
The new standard will require companies to record most leased assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, and also proposes a dual model for recognizing expense.
This guidance will be effective in the first quarter of 2019 with early adoption permitted.
In January 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
This guidance will be effective for the Company for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year.
Early adoption is permitted for transactions that have not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance.
We are currently evaluating the effect of the adoption of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued a new accounting standard which provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting in ASC Topic 718.
Under the new guidance, modification accounting is required only if the fair value, the vesting conditions, or the classification of the award (as equity or liability) changes as a result of the change in terms or conditions.
This guidance will be effective for the year ending December 31, 2019 and interim reporting periods within that year.
Early adoption is permitted.
4 



Index  



Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards 



On January 1, 2018, we adopted Topic 606 (ASU 2014-09) applying the modified retrospective method.
The primary impact of adoption relates to additional disclosures and presentation of revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and the timing of revenue recognition.
The amount and timing of revenue recognition did not change with the adoption of Topic 606.
Revenue recognition 



Revenue is recognized at the point at which control of the underlying products are transferred to the customer.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.
Based upon the nature of our contracts with customers and our performance obligations within those contracts, we have no contract assets or liabilities as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
Nature of products 



We are primarily a supplier of original designed and manufactured (ODM) products that include value-added engineering and turn-key solutions.
The following is a description of major products lines from which we generate our revenue: 



ODM Projects - Our custom made small devices for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and contract electronic manufacturers (CEMs) in their multi-year turn-key projects and marketed in specific industries such as: wild animal feeders, timers for DC motors, public street light controllers, and battery chargers.
Distribution Components - Our name brand electronic components.
Disaggregation of revenue 



In the following table, revenue is disaggregated by primary geographical market, major product line, and timing of revenue recognition.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



5 



Index  



2 – INVENTORY 



Inventory – Inventory, consisting principally of products held for resale, is recorded at the lower of cost (determined using the first in-first out method) or net realizable value.
We had inventory balances in the amount of $4,738,000 and $4,990,000 at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which is presented net of valuation allowances of $7,991,000 and $7,848,000, respectively.
In any case, actual amounts could be different from those estimated.
3 – OTHER ASSETS 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Our $193,000 investment in securities as of September 30, 2018 relates to our ownership of 1,322,552 common shares of Zowie Technology Corporation (New Taipei City, Taiwan), a supplier of electronic component products.
This investment is accounted for under the cost (plus impairment) method basis of accounting.
Our investment in joint venture as of September 30, 2018, relates to our 49% ownership of Grand Shine Management Limited (Dong Guan, China), an electronic device contract manufacturer, and joint venture with its 51% owner, Teamforce Company Limited.
Our investment is accounted for under the equity method basis of accounting.
4 – LONG-TERM DEBT FROM RELATED PARTY 



On April 21, 2008, we entered into a $3,000,000 credit facility, collateralized by real property, from K.S.
Best International Co. Ltd., a company controlled by the brother of our Chief Executive Officer.
Our borrowing ability on this credit facility is closed.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the aggregate outstanding balance on this credit facility was $0 and $500,000, respectively.
5 – RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 



We made payments to K.S.
Best International Co. Ltd., a company controlled by the brother of our Chief Executive Officer of approximately $6,000 for both of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
These payments were for professional fees related to the operational management of our Taiwan office.
In addition, we also made interest expense payments on our credit facility of approximately $0 and $11,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively and $9,000 and $32,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
See Note 4.
6 



Index  



6 – SHARE BASED COMPENSATION 



Accounting for stock options issued to employees measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award.
That cost is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award.
Outstanding options to purchase Class A common stock (“the Options”) vest in three equal annual installments beginning one year from the date of grant and are subject to termination provisions as defined in our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan.
The Options activity during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



At September 30, 2018, the range of individual outstanding weighted average exercise prices was $0.98 to $1.08.
7 – COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 



Inventory Purchasing 



Outstanding commitments to purchase inventory from suppliers aggregated $1,495,000 as of September 30, 2018.
7 



Index
