 PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION 



     ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 



 There have been no material developments in our legal proceedings since we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017.
Refer to "Part I.
Item 3.
Legal Proceedings" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 for additional information regarding legal proceedings.
ITEM 1A.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 29, 2017 except as described below.
The risk of U.S. federal income tax reporting and compliance obligations with respect to our subsidiaries that now are treated as CFCs may deter our current shareholders from increasing their investment in us, and others from investing in us, which could impact the demand for, and value of, our shares.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 



  Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities  



 None.
44 



Table of Contents 



  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  



 The following table presents information about our purchases of our common shares during the quarter ended March 30, 2018:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



(1)These columns include the following transactions which occurred during the quarter ended March 30, 2018: 



(i)the acquisition of 6,160 common shares from individuals in order to satisfy tax withholding requirements in connection with the vesting of restricted share awards issued under equity compensation plans; and 



(ii)open market purchases totaling 1,680,770 common shares, summarized on a trade-date basis, in conjunction with the share repurchase program announced in September 2007.
(2)Our share repurchase program authorizes us to purchase a portion of our outstanding common shares from time to time through open market or private transactions, depending on business and market conditions.
The share repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
ITEM 6.
EXHIBITS 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



*Filed herewith 



**Furnished herewith   



45 



Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES 



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   



Date: April 25, 2018  



46
