See also Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Overview  



We are a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications.
We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems used to test semiconductors, wireless products, data storage and complex electronics systems in the consumer electronics, wireless, automotive, industrial, computing, communications, and aerospace and defense industries.
Our automatic test equipment and industrial automation products and services include:  



   •   semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;  



   •   defense/aerospace (“Defense/Aerospace”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test (“Storage Test”) systems, and circuit-board test and inspection (“Production Board Test”) systems (collectively these products represent “System Test”);  



   •   industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products; and  



   •   wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.
During the first quarter of 2018, demand outlook for mobile device test capacity in 2018 declined sharply for our Semiconductor Test business.
In 2015, we acquired Universal Robots A/S (“Universal Robots”), the leading supplier of collaborative robots which are low-cost, easy-to-deploy and simple-to-program robots that work side by side with production  



34   



Table of Contents 



 workers to improve quality, increase manufacturing efficiency and decrease manufacturing costs.
The acquisition of Universal Robots provides a growth engine to our business and complements our existing System Test and Wireless Test segments.
The total purchase price for Universal Robots was approximately $315 million, which included cash paid of approximately $284 million and $32 million in fair value of contingent consideration payable upon achievement of revenue and earnings targets through 2018.
The contingent consideration related to revenue for the period from July 1, 2015 to December 31, 2017 in the amount of $24.6 million was paid in March 2018.
The remaining maximum contingent consideration that could be paid in 2019 is $25 million.
On February 26, 2018, we acquired Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total preliminary purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare; utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR and Energid will be included in our Industrial Automation segment.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers  



We adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, “Revenue Recognition” (“ASC 605”), which is also referred to herein as “Legacy GAAP” or the “previous guidance.” We recorded a net increase to retained earnings of $12.7 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606.
Refer to Note B: “Accounting Policies” in our 2017 annual report on Form 10-K for the policies in effect for revenue prior to January 1, 2018.
The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of our hardware and services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures.
In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when or as a customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for fulfillment of the performance obligation.
Our primary source of revenue will continue to be from the sale of systems, instruments, robots, and the delivery of services.
35   



Table of Contents 



In accordance with ASC 606, we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Our determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.
Step 1: Identify the contract with the customer  



We account for a contract with a customer when there is written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.
Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract  



We periodically enter into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations.
We determine performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
In order to be distinct the product or service must perform either on its own or with readily available resources and must be separate within the context of the contract.
Step 3: Determine the transaction price  



We considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract  



Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
We use standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
Any discounts from standalone selling price are spread over each performance obligation.
Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation  



In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, we first determine if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
We use input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, we will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
We have concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of our products and services is a formality as we deliver similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, we will wait for customer acceptance before recognizing revenue.
Retirement Benefits  



In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Compensation—Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.” We retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance on presentation of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs in the first quarter of 2018.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost,  



36   



Table of Contents 



 expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other (income) expense, net by the same amount with zero impact to net income.
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  



In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments—Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” We adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
This guidance requires that changes in fair value of equity securities be accounted for directly in earnings.
Previously, the changes in fair value were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet.
The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.
37   



Table of Contents 



SELECTED RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN THE CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED  



STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Results of Operations  



First Quarter 2018 Compared to First Quarter 2017  



Revenues  



Revenues by our four reportable segments were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



38   



Table of Contents 



The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $17.8 million, or 5.0%, was driven primarily by increased sales in the flash memory test segment, partially offset by a decrease in image sensor and microcontroller sales.
The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $12.5 million, or 34.4%, was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms.
The increase in System Test revenues of $3.2 million, or 8.0%, was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of system level testers.
The decrease in Wireless Test revenues of $2.8 million, or 11.1%, was primarily due to lower demand for connectivity and cellular test systems.
Revenues by country as a percentage of total revenues were as follows (1):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1) Revenues attributable to a country are based on location of customer site.
This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory.
Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved.
Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed during the next twelve quarters for our Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and the next four quarters for our Wireless Test segment, is written-down to estimated net realizable value.
39   



Table of Contents 



During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we recorded an inventory provision of $3.5 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.
Of the $3.5 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $2.2 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.8 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.3 million was related to System Test, and $0.2 million was related to Industrial Automation.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we recorded an inventory provision of $2.7 million included in cost of revenues primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels.
Of the $2.7 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $1.3 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $0.9 million was related to System Test, and $0.5 million was related to Wireless Test.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, we scrapped $0.3 million and $1.8 million of inventory, respectively.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, we sold $2.2 million and $1.1 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively.
As of April 1, 2018, we had inventory related reserves for inventory which had been written-down or written-off totaling $103.4 million.
We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory.
Selling and Administrative  



Selling and administrative expenses were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The increase of $5.7 million in selling and administrative expenses was due primarily to higher spending in Industrial Automation.
Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization  



Acquired intangible assets amortization expense was as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



40   



Table of Contents 



Acquired intangible assets amortization expense decreased primarily in the Industrial Automation segment due to intangible assets that became fully amortized in June 2017, partially offset by increased amortization expense due to the Energid acquisition.
Restructuring and Other  



During the three months ended April 1, 2018, we recorded a $5.0 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $3.9 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $0.8 million of acquisition related expenses.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we recorded $2.5 million of restructuring and other charges of which $1.3 million was for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017, $0.6 million was for employee severance charges and $0.6 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
Interest and Other  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest income increased by $2.5 million due primarily to higher cash and marketable securities balances during the quarter and higher interest rates in 2018.
Interest expense increased by $1.5 million due primarily to realized losses on sales of marketable securities.
Other (income) expense, net included net foreign exchange losses and non-service components of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs.
The decrease in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was driven primarily by lower gross margin due to product mix.
The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was primarily due to higher sales in Storage Test of system level testers.
The increase in income before income taxes in Industrial Automation was due to higher demand for collaborative robotic arms.
The decrease in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to lower demand for connectivity and cellular test systems.
41   



Table of Contents 



Income Taxes  



The effective tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 was 9.2% and 7.4%, respectively.
The increase in the effective tax rate from the three months ended April 2, 2017 to the three months ended April 1, 2018 primarily resulted from a projected shift in the geographic distribution of income which increased income subject to taxation in the U.S. relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions and a reduction in discrete tax benefits recognized.
Operating activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 used cash of $81.9 million.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $212.6 million.
The increase in operating assets was primarily due to a $140.7 million increase in accounts receivable due to an increase in shipments during the last month of the quarter and the impact of the new revenue recognition standard, a $21.0 million increase in inventories, and a $0.7 million increase in prepayments and other assets.
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $56.3 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $12.1 million decrease in income taxes, a $7.5 million decrease in other accrued liabilities, and $1.0 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $17.1 million increase in accounts payable and a $9.6 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments.
42   



Table of Contents 



Investing activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 provided cash of $462.9 million, due to $800.7 million and $212.7 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $490.3 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $34.8 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment and $25.4 million used for the acquisition of Energid.
Financing activities during the three months ended April 1, 2018 used cash of $174.4 million, due to $134.3 million used for the repurchase of 2.9 million shares of common stock at an average price of $45.69 per share, $19.6 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards, $17.6 million used for dividend payments, and $13.6 million used for a payment related to Universal Robots acquisition contingent consideration, partially offset by $10.7 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.
Operating activities during the three months ended April 2, 2017 used cash of $61.1 million.
Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $182.4 million.
This was due to a $184.9 million increase in operating assets and a $2.5 million increase in operating liabilities.
The decrease in operating liabilities was due to a $31.0 million decrease in accrued employee compensation due primarily to first quarter payments related to variable compensation, a $3.3 million decrease in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, a $0.9 million decrease in other accrued liabilities and $0.9 million of retirement plan contributions, partially offset by a $24.3 million increase in accounts payable and a $14.3 million increase in income taxes.
Investing activities during the three months ended April 2, 2017 provided cash of $126.4 million, due to $213.6 million and $88.2 million in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $153.3 used for purchases of marketable securities and $22.1 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Financing activities during the three months ended April 2, 2017 used cash of $50.0 million, due to $37.7 million used for the repurchase of 1.3 million shares of common stock at an average price of $29.38 per share, $14.0 million used for dividend payments, $12.3 million used for payment related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards and $1.1 million used for a payment related to AIT contingent consideration, partially offset by $15.1 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share that was paid on March 23, 2018 to shareholders of record as of February 23, 2018. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were $17.6 million.
In January 2017, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share that was paid on March 20, 2017 to shareholders of record as of February 24, 2017. Dividend payments for the three months ended April 2, 2017 were $14.0 million.
In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $37.7 million at an average price of $29.38 per share.
43   



Table of Contents 



While we declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, we may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be sufficient to pay our quarterly dividend, execute our authorized share repurchase program and meet our working capital and expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months.
Inflation has not had a significant long-term impact on earnings.
Equity Compensation Plans  



As discussed in Note O: “Stock Based Compensation” in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have a 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and a 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (the “2006 Equity Plan”).
The purpose of the 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan is to encourage stock ownership by all eligible employees of Teradyne.
The purpose of the 2006 Equity Plan is to provide equity ownership and compensation opportunities in Teradyne to our employees, officers, directors, consultants and/or advisors.
Both plans were approved by our shareholders.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Accounting for Goodwill Impairment.” The new guidance removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation.
Goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
All other goodwill impairment guidance will remain largely unchanged.
Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary.
The same one-step impairment test will be applied to goodwill at all reporting units, even those with zero or negative carrying amounts.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
The revised guidance will be applied prospectively, and is effective in 2020.
Early adoption is permitted for any impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The guidance in this ASU supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 840, “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations.
The new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements.
Item 2: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



In January 2018, our Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
We intend to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
In December 2016, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, we repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $37.7 million at an average price of $29.38 per share.
The following table includes information with respect to repurchases we made of our common stock during the three months ended April 1, 2018 (in thousands except per share price):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1) Includes 0.4 million shares at an average price of $46.59 withheld from employees for the payment of taxes.
46   



Table of Contents 



We satisfy U.S. federal and state minimum withholding tax obligations due upon the vesting and the conversion of restricted stock units into shares of our common stock, by automatically withholding from the shares being issued, a number of shares with an aggregate fair market value on the date of such vesting and conversion that would satisfy the minimum withholding amount due.
Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures  



Not Applicable  



 Item 6: Exhibits  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



47   



Table of Contents 



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



48
