 Item 1: Financial Statements  



TERADYNE, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



(Unaudited)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  



Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, are an integral part of the condensed  



consolidated financial statements.
3   



Table of Contents 



TERADYNE, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



(Unaudited)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  



Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, are an integral part of the condensed  



consolidated financial statements.
4   



Table of Contents 



TERADYNE, INC.  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



(Unaudited)  



A.
THE COMPANY  



Teradyne, Inc. (“Teradyne”) is a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications.
Teradyne’s automatic test equipment and industrial automation products and services include:  



   •   semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;  



   •   defense/aerospace (“Defense/Aerospace”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test (“Storage Test”) systems, and circuit-board test and inspection (“Production Board Test”) systems (collectively these products represent “System Test”);  



   •   industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products; and  



   •   wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.
B.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES  



Basis of Presentation  



The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers  



Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, “Revenue Recognition” (“ASC 605”), which is also referred to herein as “Legacy GAAP” or the “previous guidance.” Teradyne recorded a net increase  



5   



Table of Contents 



 to retained earnings of $12.7 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606.
Refer to Note B: “Accounting Policies” in Teradyne’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the policies in effect for revenue prior to January 1, 2018.
The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of Teradyne’s hardware and services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures.
In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when or as a customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which Teradyne expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for fulfillment of the performance obligation.
Teradyne’s primary source of revenue will continue to be from the sale of systems, instruments, robots, and the delivery of services.
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Teradyne’s determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.
Step 1: Identify the contract with the customer  



Teradyne accounts for a contract with a customer when there is written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.
Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract  



Teradyne periodically enters into contracts with its customers in which a customer may purchase a combination of goods and or services, such as products with extended warranty obligations.
Teradyne determines performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
Step 3: Determine the transaction price  



Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract  



Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation  



In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions which do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.
6   



Table of Contents 



Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $483.2 million for the period ended April 1, 2018.
Teradyne also recognized $4.3 million in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Disaggregation of Revenue  



The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1) System on a chip (“SOC”)  



Performance Obligations  



Hardware  



Teradyne hardware consists primarily of semiconductor test systems and instruments, defense/aerospace test instrumentation and systems, storage test systems and instruments, circuit-board test and inspection systems and instruments, collaborative robots, and wireless test systems.
The hardware includes a standard 12 month warranty.
This warranty is not considered a distinct performance obligation because it does not obligate Teradyne to provide a separate service to the customer and it cannot be purchased separately.
Teradyne’s hardware is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control to the customer.
Extended Warranty  



Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Training and Applications Support  



Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
The training and support allow the customer to use Teradyne’s systems efficiently and  



7   



Table of Contents 



 effectively.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Both are recognized using an input method of hours consumed as this best depicts the transfer of services to the customer.
Service Agreements  



Service agreements are recognized ratably over the period of agreement based on months completed.
Post-Contract Customer Support (“PCS”)  



Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades.
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.
Teradyne does not allow customer returns or provide refunds to customers for any products or services.
Contract Balances  



The following table provides information about contract liabilities.
Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The amount of revenue recognized during the quarter ended April 1, 2018 that was included within the deferred revenue and customer advances balance at January 1, 2018 was $21.8 million and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Remaining Performance Obligations  



Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.
Practical Expedients  



Teradyne has adopted the practical expedients available within ASC 340 “Other Assets and Deferred Costs” for contract assets, specifically in relation to incremental costs of obtaining a contract.
Teradyne generally expenses sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would be less than one year.
8   



Table of Contents 



Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Teradyne does not have material payments associated with performance obligations outside this one year time frame.
Impacts  



The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
Under Legacy GAAP Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance.
Under ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenue prior to receipt of acceptance if acceptance is deemed a formality.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operation:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Retirement Benefits  



In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, “Compensation—Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit  



9   



Table of Contents 



 Cost.” Teradyne retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance on presentation of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs in the first quarter of 2018.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
The non-service components of net benefit costs such as interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service cost, and actuarial gains or losses, are required to be reported separately outside of income or loss from operations.
The retrospective adoption of this standard increased the first quarter of 2017 income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of the non-service component of pension expense and decreased other income (expense), net by the same amount with no impact to net income.
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  



In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments—Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” Teradyne adopted the new accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
This guidance requires that changes in fair value of equity securities be accounted for directly in earnings.
Previously, the changes in fair value were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet.
Teradyne continues to record realized gains in interest income and realized losses in interest expense.
The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.
When the reasonable estimate of the loss is within a range of amounts, and no amount in the range constitutes a better estimate than any other amount, Teradyne accrues the amount at the low end of the range.
Attorney fees related to legal matters are expensed as incurred.
C. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  



On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Accounting for Goodwill Impairment.” The new guidance removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation.
Goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
All other goodwill impairment guidance will remain largely unchanged.
Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
The revised guidance will be applied prospectively, and is effective in 2020.
Early adoption is permitted for any impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The guidance in this ASU supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 840,  



10   



Table of Contents 



 “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statements of operations.
The new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements.
D. ACQUISITIONS  



Energid Technologies Corporation  



On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total preliminary purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare; utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s preliminary purchase price allocation was goodwill of $15.7 million, acquired intangible assets of $10.9 million with an average estimated useful life of 6.1 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
E. INVENTORIES  



Inventories, net consisted of the following at April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Inventory reserves for the periods ending April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $103.4 million and $102.9 million, respectively.
F. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  



Cash Equivalents  



Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.
Marketable Securities  



Effective January 1, 2018, Teradyne adopted ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments—Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” using the modified retrospective approach.
This guidance requires that changes in fair value of equity securities be accounted for directly in earnings.
Prior to 2018, the changes in fair value of equity securities were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet.
11   



Table of Contents 



On a quarterly basis, Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate those that have an indication of a potential other-than-temporary impairment.
As defined in ASC 820-10, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,” fair value is the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
For example, a common approach for valuing fixed income securities is the use of matrix pricing.
Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices, and is considered a Level 2 input; or  



Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not supported by market data.
Unobservable inputs are developed based on the best information available, which might include Teradyne’s own data.
Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1.
Acquisition-related contingent consideration is classified as Level 3.
Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
Assumptions utilized in the model include forecasted revenues, revenue volatility and discount rate.
The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors.
Realized gains recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
Realized losses recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were $1.5 million and $0.2 million, respectively.
Changes in fair value of equity securities are included in other (income) expense, net.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2 or Level 3 financial instruments.
12   



Table of Contents 



The following table sets forth by fair value hierarchy Teradyne’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reported as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



13   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reported as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



14   



Table of Contents 



Changes in the fair value of Level 3 contingent consideration for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a) In the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne paid $24.6 million of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots A/S (“Universal Robots”).
(b) In the three months ended April 1, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $5.0 million, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue.
In the three months ended April 2, 2017, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was increased by $0.6 million primarily due to an increase in forecasted revenue and a decrease in the discount rate.
The following table provides quantitative information associated with the fair value measurement of Teradyne’s Level 3 financial instruments:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of April 1, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the Universal Robots contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility and discount rate.
The maximum payment for the remaining Universal Robots revenue earn-out is $25.0 million.
The carrying amounts and fair values of Teradyne’s financial instruments at April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1) The carrying value represents the bifurcated debt component only, while the fair value is based on quoted market prices for the convertible note which includes the equity conversion features.
15   



Table of Contents 



The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The following table summarize the composition of available-for-sale marketable securities at April 1, 2018:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reported as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following table summarize the composition of available-for-sale marketable securities at December 31, 2017:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



16   



Table of Contents 



Reported as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of April 1, 2018, the fair market value of investments in debt securities with unrealized losses totaled $891.0 million.
Of this value, $62.1 million had unrealized losses of $1.6 million for greater than one year and $828.9 million had unrealized losses of $1.9 million for less than one year.
As of December 31, 2017, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $1,350.9 million.
Of this value, $141.0 million had unrealized losses of $1.2 million for greater than one year and $1,209.9 million had unrealized losses of $2.2 million for less than one year.
Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment.
The contractual maturities of investments in debt securities held at April 1, 2018 were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Contractual maturities of investments in debt securities held at April 1, 2018 exclude $2.7 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.
The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Teradyne enters into foreign currency forward contracts.
The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $108.8 million and $116.8 million, respectively.
17   



Table of Contents 



The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments as of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following table summarizes the effect of derivative instruments recognized in the statement of operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017.
(2) For the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, net gains from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $0.6 million and $1.5 million, respectively.
See Note G: “Debt” regarding derivatives related to the convertible senior notes.
G. DEBT  



Convertible Senior Notes  



On December 12, 2016, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0 million convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”).
The Notes will mature on December 15, 2023, unless earlier repurchased or converted.
The Notes bear interest from December 12, 2016 at a rate of 1.25% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2017.
The Notes will be convertible at the option of the noteholders at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding September 15, 2023, under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2017 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing sale price of Teradyne’s common stock, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period (the “measurement period”) in which the trading price (as defined in the Indenture) per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of the Teradyne’s common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; and (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.
On or after September 15, 2023 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances.
Teradyne may satisfy its conversion obligation by paying or delivering cash, shares of its common stock or a combination of cash and shares of its common stock, at Teradyne’s election.
The conversion rate is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
18   



Table of Contents 



Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”).
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the common stock that underlie the Notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the Notes of $31.80.
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.
The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price.
Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, Teradyne entered into warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties (the “Warrant Transactions”) in which it sold net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties.
The Warrant Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of common stock.
The strike price is subject to adjustments under certain circumstances.
The net cost of the Notes Hedge Transactions, after being partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $33 million.
In connection with establishing their initial hedge of these convertible note hedge and warrant transactions, the Option Counterparties have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to Teradyne’s common stock and/or purchased shares of Teradyne’s common stock or other securities, including the Notes, concurrent with, or shortly after, the pricing of the Notes.
In addition, the Option Counterparties may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to Teradyne’s common stock or by selling Teradyne’s common stock or other securities, including the Notes, in secondary market transactions (and may do so during any observation period related to the conversion of the Notes).
Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%.
The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date.
Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year term of the Notes.
19   



Table of Contents 



The below tables represent the key components of Teradyne’s convertible senior notes:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of April 1, 2018, the remaining unamortized discount was $90.6 million, which will be amortized over 5.8 years using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million.
As of April 1, 2018, the conversion rate was equal to the initial conversion price of approximately $31.80 per share and the if-converted value of the Notes was $661.2 million.
Revolving Credit Facility  



On April 27, 2015, Teradyne entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto.
The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Agreement further provides that, subject to customary conditions, Teradyne may seek to obtain from existing or new lenders incremental commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.
Proceeds from the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and working capital.
Teradyne incurred $2.3 million in costs related to the revolving credit facility.
As of May 11, 2018, Teradyne has not borrowed any funds under the Credit Facility.
The interest rates applicable to loans under the Credit Facility are, at Teradyne’s option, equal to either a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 1.00% per annum or LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.00% to 2.00% per annum, based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio of Teradyne and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
In addition, Teradyne will pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the commitments under the Credit Facility ranging from 0.125% to 0.350% per annum, based on the then applicable Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
Teradyne is not required to repay any loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity, subject to certain customary exceptions.
Teradyne is permitted to prepay all or any portion of the loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity without premium or penalty, other than customary LIBOR breakage costs.
The Credit Agreement also requires Teradyne to satisfy two financial ratios measured as of the end of each fiscal quarter: a consolidated leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio.
As of May 11, 2018, Teradyne was in compliance with all covenants.
20   



Table of Contents 



The Credit Facility is guaranteed by certain of Teradyne’s domestic subsidiaries and collateralized by assets of Teradyne and such subsidiaries, including a pledge of 65% of the capital stock of certain foreign subsidiaries.
H. PREPAYMENTS  



Prepayments consist of the following and are included in prepayments on the balance sheet:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



I.
DEFERRED REVENUE AND CUSTOMER ADVANCES  



Deferred revenue and customer advances consist of the following and are included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances on the balance sheet:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



J.
PRODUCT WARRANTY  



Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment.
A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for estimated warranty expense based on historical experience.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



21   



Table of Contents 



When Teradyne receives revenue for extended warranties, beyond one year, it is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
The balance below is included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances on the balance sheet.
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.
Time-based restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to non-employee directors vest after a one year period, with 100% of the award vesting on the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the grant date or the (b) the date of the following year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.
Commencing in January 2014, Teradyne granted performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) to its executive officers with a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”).
For TSR grants issued in 2018 and 2017, Teradyne’s three-year TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index.
The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value.
The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date.
The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant.
Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period.
Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
In January 2018 and 2017, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue.
The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from  



22   



Table of Contents 



 200% to 0% of the target shares.
The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of grant.
Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
Beginning with PRSUs granted in January 2014, if the recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined.
Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million TSR PRSUs, respectively, with a grant date fair value of $54.85 and $35.66, respectively.
The fair value was estimated using the Monte Carlo simulation model with the following assumptions:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for the 2018 and 2017 grant over the most recent three year period.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $46.62 and $27.72, respectively.
During the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.5 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.58 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.8 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $27.86 and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $7.13.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Stock options vest in equal annual installments over four years and have a term of seven years from the date of grant.
Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



24   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to the statement of operations for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a) The amortization of prior service credit is included in the computation of net periodic pension cost and postretirement benefit; see Note P: “Retirement Plans.”  



M. GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS  



Goodwill  



Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 350-10, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist.
Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.
Amortizable intangible assets consist of the following and are included in intangible assets, net on the balance sheet:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1) Gross carrying amount includes $10.9 million of Energid acquired intangible assets.
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $7.7 million and $8.0 million, respectively, for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017.
26   



Table of Contents 



Estimated intangible asset amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years is as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



N. NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE  



The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per common share:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1) Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes was calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the conversion price of $31.80, multiplied by 14.5 million shares.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
(2) Convertible notes hedge warrant shares were calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the warrant price of $39.91, multiplied by 14.5 million shares.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the warrant, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
27   



Table of Contents 



O.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne recorded $2.5 million of restructuring and other charges of which $1.3 million was for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA which was terminated in September 2017, $0.6 million was for employee severance charges, and $0.6 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
The pension asset or liability represents a difference between the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and the projected benefit obligation.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans  



Teradyne has defined benefit pension plans covering a portion of domestic employees and employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Benefits under these plans are based on employees’ years of service and compensation.
The assets of the U.S. qualified pension plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities.
In the three months ended April 1, 2018, Teradyne contributed $0.6 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.2 million to certain qualified pension plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries.
For the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, Teradyne’s net periodic pension cost was comprised of the following:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Postretirement Benefit Plan  



In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65.
Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees.
Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.
28   



Table of Contents 



For the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017, Teradyne’s net periodic postretirement benefit cost (income) was comprised of the following:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Q.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  



Purchase Commitments  



As of April 1, 2018, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials.
The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $285.8 million, of which $275.7 million is for less than one year.
R. INCOME TAXES  



The effective tax rate for the three months ended April 1, 2018 and April 2, 2017 was 9.2% and 7.4%, respectively.
Discrete tax benefits recorded in the three months ended April 1, 2018 amounted to $8.3 million composed of $7.6 million from stock based compensation and $0.7 million of other discrete tax benefits.
The $7.6 million of discrete benefit from stock based compensation included $7.4 million of excess tax benefits recognized pursuant to ASU No.
The $5.5 million of discrete benefit from stock based compensation included $5.2 million of excess tax benefits recognized pursuant to ASU No.
2016-09 “Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.”  



On a quarterly basis, Teradyne evaluates the realizability of the deferred tax assets by jurisdiction and assesses the need for a valuation allowance.
As of April 1, 2018, Teradyne believes that it will ultimately realize the deferred tax assets recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Teradyne had $37.3 million and $36.3 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions.
The $1.0 million net increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions is primarily composed of additions related to transfer pricing exposures and U.S. research and development tax credits.
As of April 1, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions.
For the three months ended April 1, 2018, an expense of $0.03 million was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.
For the three months ended April 2, 2017, a benefit of $0.1 million was recorded for interest and penalties related to income tax items.
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the three months ended April 1, 2018 was $3.0 million, or $0.01 per diluted share.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the three months ended April 2, 2017 was $4.7 million, or $0.02 per diluted share.
The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.
As of April 1, 2018, there has been no material change to the provisional amount recorded.
Any adjustment to the provisional amounts will be recorded in 2018 when the analysis is complete.
S. SEGMENT INFORMATION  



Teradyne has four operating segments (Semiconductor Test, System Test, Industrial Automation and Wireless Test), which are its reportable segments.
The Semiconductor Test segment includes operations related  



30   



Table of Contents 



 to the design, manufacturing and marketing of semiconductor test products and services.
The System Test segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of products and services for defense/aerospace instrumentation test, storage test and circuit-board test.
The Industrial Automation segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of collaborative robotic arms and advanced robotic control software.
The Wireless Test segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of wireless test products and services.
Teradyne evaluates performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment income (loss) before income taxes.
(3) Total business assets are directly attributable to each business.
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.
Included in the Semiconductor Test segment are charges and credits in the following line items in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



31   



Table of Contents 



Included in the System Test segment are charges in the following line item in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Included in the Industrial Automation segment are charges in the following line item in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Included in the Wireless Test segment are charges in the following line items in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Included in Corporate and Other are charges and credits in the following line items in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



T. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  



Stock Repurchase Program  



In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
Teradyne intends to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the three months ended April 2, 2017, Teradyne repurchased 1.3 million shares of common stock for $37.7 million at an average price of $29.38 per share.
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.
32   



Table of Contents 



Dividend  



Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.
In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
Dividend payments for the three months ended April 1, 2018 were $17.6 million.
In January 2017, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share.
Dividend payments for the three months ended April 2, 2017 were $14.0 million.
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.
U.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  



On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $148 million net of cash acquired, and up to an additional approximately $124 million payable upon the achievement of certain revenue and profit performance targets through 2020.
The fair value of assets and liabilities acquired has not been disclosed because Teradyne has not completed the valuation.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR will be part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
33   



Table of Contents 



 Item 1: Legal Proceedings  



We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks that we face.
