 Item 1:  



Legal Proceedings   



We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
The risk factors described in our Annual Report on Form 



10-K remain applicable to our business.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 



10-K are not the only risks that we face.
We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that limit and restrict the export of some of our products and services and may restrict our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons.
In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.
We must also comply with export restrictions and laws imposed by other countries affecting trade and investments.
We maintain an export compliance program but there are risks that the compliance controls could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities.
Compliance with these laws has not significantly limited our sales, but could significantly limit them in the future.
The U.S. government from time to time has issued export restrictions that prohibit U.S. companies from exporting U.S. manufactured products, foreign manufactured products with more than 25% controlled U.S. content, as well as U.S. origin technology.
For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has restricted the access of U.S. origin technologies to certain Chinese companies by adding those companies to the Entity List under U.S.
Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”).
On May 16, 2019, Huawei and 68 of its affiliates, including HiSilicon, were added to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List under the EAR.
This action by the U.S. Department of Commerce imposes new export licensing requirements on exports, 



re-exports, and 



in-country  transfers of all U.S. regulated products, software and technology to the designated Huawei entities.
While most of our products are not subject to the EAR and therefore not affected by the Entity List restrictions, certain of our products are currently manufactured in the U.S. and thus subject to the Entity List restrictions.
Compliance with the Entity List restrictions has not significantly impacted our sales, but could limit sales in the future.
Furthermore, Huawei’s inability to obtain products from other companies in its supply chain may adversely impact Huawei’s demand for our products.
Huawei or other foreign customers affected by future U.S. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors’ solutions.
Also, our controls related to Entity List compliance could be circumvented, exposing us to legal liabilities.
