 Item 1:  



Financial Statements  



TERADYNE, INC.  



 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



(Unaudited)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  



Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, are an integral part of the condensed  



consolidated financial statements.
3   



Table of Contents 



TERADYNE, INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



(Unaudited)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes, together with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Teradyne’s  



Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, are an integral part of the condensed  



consolidated financial statements.
4   



Table of Contents 



TERADYNE, INC.  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



(Unaudited)  



A.
THE COMPANY  



Teradyne, Inc. (“Teradyne”) is a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications.
Teradyne’s automatic test equipment and industrial automation products and services include:  



   •    



semiconductor test (“Semiconductor Test”) systems;  



   •    



defense/aerospace (“Defense/Aerospace”) test instrumentation and systems, storage test (“Storage Test”) systems, and circuit-board test and inspection (“Production Board Test”) systems (collectively these products represent “System Test”);  



   •    



industrial automation (“Industrial Automation”) products; and  



   •    



wireless test (“Wireless Test”) systems.
B.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES  



Basis of Presentation  



The consolidated interim financial statements include the accounts of Teradyne and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The accompanying financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on March 1, 2018, for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Revenue from Contracts with Customers  



Teradyne adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of ASC 606 while the reported results for 2017 were prepared under the guidance of ASC 605, “Revenue Recognition” (“ASC 605”), which is also referred to herein as “Legacy GAAP” or the “previous guidance.” Teradyne recorded a net increase  



5   



Table of Contents 



 to retained earnings of $12.7 million as of January 1, 2018 due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606.
Refer to Note B: “Accounting Policies” in Teradyne’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the policies in effect for revenue prior to January 1, 2018.
The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of Teradyne’s hardware and services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures.
In accordance with ASC 606, revenue is recognized when or as a customer obtains control of promised goods or services.
The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration to which Teradyne expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for fulfillment of the performance obligation.
Teradyne’s primary source of revenue will continue to be from the sale of systems, instruments, robots, and the delivery of services.
In accordance with ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer.
Teradyne’s determination of revenue is dependent upon a five step process outlined below.
Step 1: Identify the contract with the customer  



Teradyne accounts for a contract with a customer when there is written approval, the contract is committed, the rights of the parties, including payment terms, are identified, the contract has commercial substance and consideration is probable of collection.
Teradyne determines performance obligations by assessing whether the products or services are distinct from the other elements of the contract.
Step 3: Determine the transaction price  



Teradyne considers the amount stated on the face of the purchase order to be the transaction price.
Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract  



Transaction price is allocated to each individual performance obligation based on the standalone selling price of that performance obligation.
Teradyne uses standalone transactions when available to value each performance obligation.
Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation  



In order to determine the appropriate timing for revenue recognition, Teradyne first determines if the transaction meets any of three criteria for over time recognition.
If the transaction meets the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne recognizes revenue as the good or service is delivered.
Teradyne uses input variables such as hours or months utilized or costs incurred to determine the amount of revenue to recognize in a given period.
Input variables are used as they best align consumption with benefit to the customer.
For transactions that do not meet the criteria for over time recognition, Teradyne will recognize revenue at a point in time based on an assessment of the five criteria for transfer of control.
Teradyne has concluded that revenue should be recognized when shipped or delivered based on contractual terms.
Typically acceptance of Teradyne’s products and services is a formality as Teradyne delivers similar systems, instruments and robots to standard specifications.
In cases where acceptance is not deemed a formality, Teradyne will defer revenue recognition until customer acceptance.
6   



Table of Contents 



Revenue recognized in accordance with ASC 606 was $564.5 million and $1,571.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne also recognized $2.3 million and $10.2 million, respectively, in revenue on leases of Teradyne systems, which are accounted for outside of ASC 606.
Disaggregation of Revenue  



The following table provides information about disaggregated revenue by primary geographical market, major product line and timing of revenue recognition.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Performance Obligations  



Hardware  



Teradyne hardware consists primarily of semiconductor test systems and instruments, defense/aerospace test instrumentation and systems, storage test systems and instruments, circuit-board test and inspection systems and instruments, collaborative robots, autonomous mobile robots and wireless test systems.
The hardware includes a standard 12-month warranty.
This warranty is not considered a distinct performance obligation because it does not obligate Teradyne to provide a separate service to the customer and it cannot be purchased separately.
Teradyne’s hardware is recognized at a point in time upon transfer of control to the customer.
7   



Table of Contents 



Extended Warranty  



Customers have the option to purchase an extended warranty, which extends the warranty period for systems and robots beyond the one-year standard warranty.
The extended warranty is purchased in the same transaction as the system or robot purchase and is classified as a separate performance obligation, which meets the criteria for over time recognition.
The relative standalone selling price of the extended warranty is recognized ratably over the course of the extended warranty based on months completed.
Training and Applications Support  



Teradyne sells training and applications support to customers either in standalone transactions or included with system purchases.
The training and support allow the customer to use Teradyne’s systems efficiently and effectively.
Training and applications support included in system orders are valued based on their standalone selling price and all training and applications support is recognized over time as the customer receives and consumes the benefit associated with each.
Both are recognized using an input method of hours consumed as this best depicts the transfer of services to the customer.
Service Agreements  



Service agreements are recognized ratably over the period of agreement based on months completed.
Post-Contract Customer Support (“PCS”)  



Teradyne provides support services for certain systems and robots outside of warranty.
These services include telephone support, bug fixes, and when-and-if available upgrades.
Standalone selling price for PCS is not directly observable as Teradyne does not sell these services separately.
Teradyne has estimated the standalone selling price for these services based on adjusted market assessments.
Teradyne does not allow customer returns or provide refunds to customers for any products or services.
Contract Balances  



The following table provides information about contract liabilities.
Teradyne does not have material contract assets on the balance sheet.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The amount of revenue recognized during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 that was previously included within the deferred revenue and customer advances was $24.5 million and $70.9 million, respectively, and primarily relates to extended warranties, training, application support, and PCS.
Each of these represents a distinct performance obligation.
Customers typically pay for these services net 30 to 60 days from the date that transfer of control of the associated system or product occurs.
Remaining Performance Obligations  



Teradyne does not have material remaining performance obligations from contracts with an original expected duration of greater than one year.
Practical Expedients  



Teradyne has adopted the practical expedients available within ASC 340 “Other Assets and Deferred Costs” for contract assets, specifically in relation to incremental costs of obtaining a contract.
Teradyne generally expenses sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would be less than one year.
Teradyne has adopted the practical expedient, which states an entity need not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component if the entity expects, at contract inception, that the period between when the entity transfers a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.
Teradyne does not have material payments associated with performance obligations outside this one-year time frame.
Impacts  



The following tables summarize the impact of ASC 606 to Teradyne’s consolidated financial statements.
Differences are the result of timing differences between the recognition of revenue under ASC 606 and ASC 605 primarily with respect to software transactions deferred due to lack of vendor specific objective evidence of price under ASC 605 and Teradyne’s assessment of acceptance under ASC 606.
Under Legacy GAAP, Teradyne did not recognize revenue prior to acceptance if payment, title, or risk of loss was tied to acceptance.
Under ASC 606, Teradyne recognizes revenue prior to receipt of acceptance if acceptance is deemed a formality.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



9   



Table of Contents 



Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operation:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Retirement Benefits  



In March 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2017-07, “Compensation—Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.” Teradyne retrospectively adopted the new accounting guidance on presentation of net periodic pension costs and net periodic postretirement benefit costs in the first quarter of 2018.
This guidance requires the service cost component of net benefit costs to be reported in the same line item in the consolidated statement of operations as other employee compensation costs.
In the three months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard increased income from operations by $0.4 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension losses and decreased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
In the nine months ended October 1, 2017, the retrospective adoption of this standard decreased income from operations by $1.3 million due to the removal of net actuarial pension gains and increased non-operating (income) expense by the same amount with no impact to net income.
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  



In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments—Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” Teradyne adopted the new  



10   



Table of Contents 



 accounting guidance in the first quarter of 2018 using the modified retrospective approach.
This guidance requires that changes in fair value of equity securities be accounted for directly in earnings.
Previously, the changes in fair value were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet.
Teradyne continues to record realized gains in interest income and realized losses in interest expense.
The adoption of this new accounting guidance increased the January 1, 2018 retained earnings balance by $3.1 million and decreased the accumulated other comprehensive income balance by the same amount.
When the reasonable estimate of the loss is within a range of amounts, and no amount in the range constitutes a better estimate than any other amount, Teradyne accrues the amount at the low end of the range.
Attorney fees related to legal matters are expensed as incurred.
C. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  



On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Accounting for Goodwill Impairment.” The new guidance removes Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires a hypothetical purchase price allocation.
Goodwill impairment will now be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.
All other goodwill impairment guidance will remain largely unchanged.
Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if a quantitative impairment test is necessary.
Entities will be required to disclose the amount of goodwill at reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts.
The revised guidance will be applied prospectively, and is effective in 2020.
Early adoption is permitted for any impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases (Topic 842).” The guidance in this ASU supersedes the lease recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 840, “Leases.” The new standard establishes a right- of-use (“ROU”) model that requires a lessee to record an ROU asset and a lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with terms longer than twelve months.
The new standard is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018 with early adoption permitted.
A modified retrospective transition approach is required for lessees for capital and operating leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, “Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements,” which amends ASU 2016-02.
The new ASU offers an additional transition method by which entities may elect not to recast the comparative periods presented in financial statements in the period of adoption and allows lessors to elect a practical expedient to not separate lease and non-lease components when certain conditions are met.
This ASU has the same transition requirements and effective date as ASU 2016-02.
Teradyne elected not to recast the comparative periods presented in financial statements in the period of adoption.
11   



Table of Contents 



D. ACQUISITIONS  



Mobile Industrial Robots  



On April 25, 2018, Teradyne acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Mobile Industrial Robots ApS (“MiR”), a Danish limited liability company located in Odense, Denmark.
MiR is the leading maker of collaborative autonomous mobile robots for industrial applications.
MiR is part of Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment.
The total preliminary purchase price of $196.6 million consisted of $145.2 million of cash paid and $51.4 million of contingent consideration, measured at fair value.
The contingent consideration is payable in Euros upon the achievement of certain thresholds and targets for revenue and earnings before interest and taxes for periods from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2018; January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2019; and January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020.
At September 30, 2018, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid is $118.9 million.
The allocation of the preliminary total purchase price to MiR’s net tangible liabilities and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The purchase price and purchase price allocation are preliminary pending the final determination of the fair value of contingent consideration, acquired assets and assumed liabilities.
Teradyne expects to finalize the purchase price calculation in the fourth quarter of 2018.
The following table represents the allocation of the preliminary purchase price:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



12   



Table of Contents 



Teradyne estimated the fair value of intangible assets using the income and cost approaches with the following key assumptions: (1) forecasted cash flows and (2) discount rate.
Acquired intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Components of these intangible assets and their estimated useful lives at the acquisition date are as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



For the three months ended September 30, 2018, MiR contributed $6.5 million of revenues and had a $(3.8) million loss from operations before income taxes.
For the period from April 25, 2018 to September 30, 2018, MiR contributed $11.1 million of revenues and had a $(5.4) million loss from operations before income taxes.
The following unaudited pro forma information gives effect to the acquisition of MiR as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2017.
The unaudited pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of what actually would have occurred had the acquisition been in effect for the periods presented:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Pro forma results for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were adjusted to exclude $2.9 million of acquisition related costs, and $0.4 million of non-recurring expense related to fair value adjustment to acquisition-date inventory.
Energid Technologies Corporation  



On February 26, 2018, Teradyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Energid Technologies Corporation (“Energid”) for a total purchase price of approximately $27.6 million.
Energid’s technology enables and simplifies the programming of complex robotic motions used in a wide variety of end markets, ranging from heavy industry to healthcare, utilizing both traditional robots and collaborative robots.
The Energid acquisition was accounted for as a business combination and, accordingly, Energid’s results have been included in Teradyne’s Industrial Automation segment from the date of acquisition.
As of the acquisition date, Teradyne’s purchase price allocation was goodwill of $14.4 million, acquired intangible assets of $12.3 million with an average estimated useful life of 7.7 years, and $1.0 million of net tangible assets.
The acquisition was not material to Teradyne’s condensed consolidated financial statements.
13   



Table of Contents 



E. INVENTORIES  



Inventories, net consisted of the following at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Inventory reserves at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $104.3 million and $102.9 million, respectively.
F. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  



Cash Equivalents  



Teradyne considers all highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents.
Marketable Securities  



Effective January 1, 2018, Teradyne adopted ASU 2016-01, “Financial Instruments—Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” using the modified retrospective approach.
This guidance requires that changes in fair value of equity securities be accounted for directly in earnings.
Prior to 2018, the changes in fair value of equity securities were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income on the balance sheet.
On a quarterly basis, Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate those that have an indication of a potential other-than-temporary impairment.
As defined in ASC 820-10, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,” fair value is the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
For example, a common approach for valuing fixed income securities is the use of matrix pricing.
Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique used to value securities by relying on the securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted prices, and is considered a Level 2 input; or  



Level 3: Unobservable inputs that are not supported by market data.
Unobservable inputs are developed based on the best information available, which might include Teradyne’s own data.
14   



Table of Contents 



Teradyne’s available-for-sale debt securities are classified as Level 2, and equity securities are classified as Level 1.
Acquisition-related contingent consideration is classified as Level 3.
Teradyne determines the fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The vast majority of Level 2 securities are fixed income securities priced by third party pricing vendors.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, there were no transfers in or out of Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 financial instruments.
Realized gains related to available-for-sale debt securities recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $0.2 million, $0.6 million, respectively.
Realized losses related to available-for-sale debt securities recorded in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.6 million.
Realized gains related to available-for-sale debt securities recorded in the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 were $0.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
Realized losses related to available-for-sale debt securities recorded in the nine months ended October 1, 2017 were $0.3 million.
Unrealized gains related to equity securities held at September 30, 2018 recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $1.0 million and $1.4 million, respectively.
The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
15   



Table of Contents 



The following table sets forth by fair value hierarchy Teradyne’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reported as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



16   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reported as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



17   



Table of Contents 



Changes in the fair value of Level 3 contingent consideration for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a)  



In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne paid $24.6 million of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots A/S (“Universal Robots”).
In the nine months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne paid $1.1 million of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Avionics Interface Technology, LLC (“AIT”).
(b)  



In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was decreased by $0.8 million and $9.2 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenue.
In the nine months ended October 1, 2017, the fair value of contingent consideration for the earn-out in connection with the acquisition of Universal Robots was increased by $1.8 million due to an increase in forecasted revenue.
The following table provides quantitative information associated with the fair value measurement of Teradyne’s Level 3 financial instruments:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of September 30, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the Universal Robots contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility, and discount rate.
The maximum payment for the remaining Universal Robots revenue earn-out is $25.0 million.
As of September 30, 2018, the significant unobservable inputs used in the Monte Carlo simulation to fair value the MiR contingent consideration include forecasted revenue, revenue volatility, earnings before interest and taxes, and discount rate.
As of September 30, 2018, the maximum amount of contingent consideration that could be paid in connection with the acquisition of MiR is $118.9 million.
The earn-out periods in connection with the MiR acquisition end on December 31, 2018, December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2020.
18   



Table of Contents 



The carrying amounts and fair values of Teradyne’s financial instruments at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



The carrying value represents the bifurcated debt component only, while the fair value is based on quoted market prices for the convertible note, which includes the equity conversion features.
The fair values of accounts receivable, net and accounts payable approximate the carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
The following table summarizes the composition of available-for-sale marketable securities at September 30, 2018:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reported as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



19   



Table of Contents 



The following table summarizes the composition of available-for-sale marketable securities at December 31, 2017:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reported as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of September 30, 2018, the fair market value of investments in available-for-sale securities with unrealized losses totaled $461.3 million.
Of this value, $76.1 million had unrealized losses of $2.1 million for greater than one year and $385.3 million had unrealized losses of $1.3 million for less than one year.
As of December 31, 2017, the fair market value of investments with unrealized losses totaled $1,350.9 million.
Of this value, $141.0 million had unrealized losses of $1.2 million for greater than one year and $1,209.9 million had unrealized losses of $2.2 million for less than one year.
Teradyne reviews its investments to identify and evaluate investments that have an indication of possible impairment.
The contractual maturities of investments in available-for-sale securities held at September 30, 2018 were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



20   



Table of Contents 



Contractual maturities of investments in available-for-sale securities held at September 30, 2018 exclude $3.1 million of debt mutual funds as they do not have a contractual maturity date.
The purpose of Teradyne’s foreign currency management is to minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
To minimize the effect of exchange rate fluctuations associated with the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, Teradyne enters into foreign currency forward contracts.
The change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded directly in earnings, and is used to offset the change in value of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts at September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $166.6 million and $116.8 million, respectively.
The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following table summarizes the effect of derivative instruments recognized in the statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017.
(2)  



For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, net losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $3.7 million and $1.2 million, respectively.
(3)  



For the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017, net losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies were $1.4 million and $2.3 million, respectively.
See Note G: “Debt” regarding derivatives related to the convertible senior notes.
21   



Table of Contents 



G. DEBT  



Convertible Senior Notes  



On December 12, 2016, Teradyne completed a private offering of $460.0 million convertible senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”).
The Notes will mature on December 15, 2023, unless earlier repurchased or converted.
The Notes bear interest from December 12, 2016 at a rate of 1.25% per year payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on June 15, 2017.
The Notes will be convertible at the option of the noteholders at any time prior to the close of business on the business day immediately preceding September 15, 2023, under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter beginning after March 31, 2017 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the closing sale price of Teradyne’s common stock, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period (the “measurement period”) in which the trading price (as defined in the Indenture) per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of the Teradyne’s common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; and (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.
On or after September 15, 2023 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances.
Teradyne may satisfy its conversion obligation by paying or delivering cash, shares of its common stock or a combination of cash and shares of its common stock, at Teradyne’s election.
The conversion rate for the Notes is 31.4463 shares per $1,000 principal amount, which is equivalent to a conversion price of approximately $31.80 per share of Teradyne’s common stock.
The conversion rate is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances.
Concurrent with the offering of the Notes, Teradyne entered into convertible note hedge transactions (the “Note Hedge Transactions”) with the initial purchasers or their affiliates (the “Option Counterparties”).
The Note Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of Teradyne’s common stock.
The convertible note hedge is considered indexed to Teradyne’s stock as the terms of the Note Hedge Transactions do not contain an exercise contingency and the settlement amount equals the difference between the fair value of a fixed number of Teradyne’s shares and a fixed strike price.
Separately and concurrent with the pricing of the Notes, Teradyne entered into warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties (the “Warrant Transactions”) in which it sold net-share-settled (or, at its election subject to certain conditions, cash-settled) warrants to the Option Counterparties.
The Warrant Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 14.5 million shares of common stock.
The strike price of the warrants is approximately $39.91 per share.
The strike price is subject to adjustments under certain circumstances.
The net cost of the Notes Hedge Transactions, after being partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of the warrants, was approximately $33 million.
22   



Table of Contents 



In connection with establishing their initial hedge of these convertible note hedge and warrant transactions, the Option Counterparties have entered into various derivative transactions with respect to Teradyne’s common stock and/or purchased shares of Teradyne’s common stock or other securities, including the Notes, concurrent with, or shortly after, the pricing of the Notes.
In addition, the Option Counterparties may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions with respect to Teradyne’s common stock or by selling Teradyne’s common stock or other securities, including the Notes, in secondary market transactions (and may do so during any observation period related to the conversion of the Notes).
Teradyne’s effective annual interest rate on the Notes will be approximately 5.0%.
The Notes are classified as long-term debt in the balance sheet based on their December 15, 2023 maturity date.
Debt issuance costs of approximately $7.2 million are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the seven year term of the Notes.
As of September 30, 2018, unamortized debt issuance costs were approximately $5.6 million.
The below tables represent the key components of Teradyne’s convertible senior notes:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of September 30, 2018, the remaining unamortized discount was $83.6 million, which will be amortized over 5.3 years using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying amount of the equity component was $100.8 million.
As of September 30, 2018, the if-converted value of the Notes was $534.9 million.
Revolving Credit Facility  



On April 27, 2015, Teradyne entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto.
The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $350 million (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Agreement further provides that, subject to customary conditions, Teradyne may seek to obtain from existing or new lenders incremental commitments under the Credit Facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.
Proceeds from the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes and working capital.
Teradyne incurred $2.3 million in costs related to the revolving credit facility.
As of November 9, 2018, Teradyne has not borrowed any funds under the Credit Facility.
23   



Table of Contents 



The interest rates applicable to loans under the Credit Facility are, at Teradyne’s option, equal to either a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 1.00% per annum or LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 1.00% to 2.00% per annum, based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio of Teradyne and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
In addition, Teradyne will pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the commitments under the Credit Facility ranging from 0.125% to 0.350% per annum, based on the then applicable Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
Teradyne is not required to repay any loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity, subject to certain customary exceptions.
Teradyne is permitted to prepay all or any portion of the loans under the Credit Facility prior to maturity without premium or penalty, other than customary LIBOR breakage costs.
The Credit Agreement also requires Teradyne to satisfy two financial ratios measured as of the end of each fiscal quarter: a consolidated leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio.
As of November 9, 2018, Teradyne was in compliance with all covenants.
DEFERRED REVENUE AND CUSTOMER ADVANCES  



Deferred revenue and customer advances consist of the following and are included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances on the balance sheet:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



J.
PRODUCT WARRANTY  



Teradyne generally provides a one-year warranty on its products, commencing upon installation, acceptance, delivery or shipment.
A provision is recorded upon revenue recognition to cost of revenues for  



24   



Table of Contents 



 estimated warranty expense based on historical experience.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



When Teradyne receives revenue for extended warranties, beyond one year, it is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
The balance below is included in short and long-term deferred revenue and customer advances on the balance sheet.
Time-based restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to non-employee directors vest after a one year period, with 100% of the award vesting on the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the grant date or (b) the date of the following year’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
Teradyne expenses the cost of the restricted stock unit awards subject to time-based vesting, which is determined to be the fair market value of the shares at the date of grant, ratably over the period during which the restrictions lapse.
Commencing in January 2014, Teradyne granted performance-based restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) to its executive officers with a performance metric based on relative total shareholder return (“TSR”).
For TSR grants issued in 2018 and 2017, Teradyne’s three-year TSR performance is measured against the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Composite Index.
The final number of TSR PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares capped at four times the grant date value.
The TSR PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date.
The TSR PRSUs are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The number of units expected to be earned, based upon the achievement of the TSR market condition, is factored into the grant date Monte Carlo valuation.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three-year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the  



25   



Table of Contents 



 retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of the grant.
Compensation expense is recognized regardless of the eventual number of units that are earned based upon the market condition, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period.
Compensation expense is reversed if at any time during the three-year service period the executive officer is no longer an employee, subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
In January 2018 and 2017, Teradyne granted PRSUs to its executive officers with a performance metric based on three-year cumulative non-GAAP profit before interest and tax (“PBIT”) as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue.
The final number of PBIT PRSUs that vest will vary based upon the level of performance achieved from 200% to 0% of the target shares.
The PBIT PRSUs will vest upon the three-year anniversary of the grant date.
Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the three year service period or the period from the grant date to the date described in the retirement provisions below.
Compensation expense for employees meeting the retirement provisions prior to the grant date will be recognized in full on the date of grant.
Compensation expense is recognized based on the number of units that are earned based upon the three-year Teradyne PBIT as a percent of Teradyne’s revenue, provided the executive officer remains an employee at the end of the three-year period subject to the retirement and termination eligibility provisions noted below.
Beginning with PRSUs granted in January 2014, if the recipient’s employment ends prior to the determination of the performance percentage due to (1) permanent disability or death or (2) retirement or termination other than for cause, after attaining both at least age sixty and at least ten years of service, then all or a portion of the recipient’s PRSUs (based on the actual performance percentage achieved on the determination date) will vest on the date the performance percentage is determined.
Except as set forth in the preceding sentence, no PRSUs will vest if the executive officer is no longer an employee at the end of the three-year period.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million TSR PRSUs, respectively, with a grant date fair value of $54.85 and $35.66, respectively.
The fair value was estimated using the Monte Carlo simulation model with the following assumptions:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of Teradyne’s stock and the NYSE Composite Index for the 2018 and 2017 grant over the most recent three-year period.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants, divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.1 million and 0.1 million, respectively, of PBIT PRSUs with a grant date fair value of $46.62 and $27.72, respectively.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne granted 0.6 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $46.25, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to non-employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $35.81, and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $12.17.
26   



Table of Contents 



During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne granted 0.8 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to employees at a weighted average grant date fair value of $28.03, 0.1 million of service-based restricted stock unit awards to non- employee directors at a weighted average grant date fair value of $34.48, and 0.1 million of service-based stock options to executive officers at a weighted average grant date fair value of $7.13.
Restricted stock unit awards granted to employees vest in equal annual installments over four years.
Stock options to purchase Teradyne’s common stock at 100% of the fair market value on the grant date vest in equal annual installments over four years from the grant date and have a maximum term of seven years.
Volatility was determined using historical volatility for a period equal to the expected life.
The risk-free interest rate was determined using the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
Dividend yield was based upon an estimated annual dividend amount of $0.36 per share for 2018 grants and $0.28 per share for 2017 grants divided by Teradyne’s stock price on the grant date of $47.70 for the 2018 grant and $28.56 for the 2017 grant.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



28   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to the statement of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (a)  



The amortization of prior service benefit is included in the computation of net periodic pension cost and postretirement benefit.
See Note P: “Retirement Plans.”  



M. GOODWILL AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS  



Goodwill  



Teradyne performs its annual goodwill impairment test as required under the provisions of ASC 350-10, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other” on December 31 of each fiscal year unless interim indicators of impairment exist.
Goodwill is considered impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value.
Amortizable intangible assets consist of the following and are included in intangible assets, net on the balance sheet:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



30   



Table of Contents 



 (1)  



Includes intangible assets acquired in 2018, $80.7 million from the MiR acquisition and $12.3 million from the Energid acquisition.
(2)  



In 2018, $0.3 million of amortizable intangible assets became fully amortized and have been eliminated from the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization.
Aggregate intangible asset amortization expense was $11.1 million and $28.6 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and $7.0 million and $23.1 million, respectively, for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017.
Estimated intangible asset amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years is as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



N. NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE  



The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per common share:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1)  



Incremental shares from assumed conversion of the convertible notes was calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the conversion price of $31.80, multiplied by 14.5 million shares.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the convertible debt, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
(2)  



Convertible notes hedge warrant shares were calculated using the difference between the average Teradyne stock price for the period and the warrant price of $39.91, multiplied by 14.5 million shares.
The result of this calculation, representing the total intrinsic value of the warrant, was divided by the average Teradyne stock price for the period.
31   



Table of Contents 



The computation of diluted net income per common share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 excludes the effect of the potential vesting of 0.5 million of restricted stock units because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.
O.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne recorded $7.9 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test, and $4.1 million for acquisition related expenses and compensation, partially offset by a $9.2 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability.
During the three months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne recorded $5.1 million of property insurance recovery related to the Japan earthquake, a $0.4 million credit related to a previously impaired lease termination of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017, and a $0.3 million credit for the decrease in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, partially offset by $0.8 million of Japan earthquake related expenses and $0.6 million recorded for employee severance charges, primarily in Semiconductor Test.
During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne recorded $2.0 million for employee severance charges, primarily in Industrial Automation and Corporate, $1.8 million for the increase in the fair value of the Universal Robots contingent consideration liability, $0.9 million for a lease impairment of a Wireless Test facility in Sunnyvale, CA, which was terminated in September 2017, and $0.8 million of Japan earthquake related expenses, partially offset by $5.1 million of property insurance recovery related to the Japan earthquake.
The pension asset or liability represents a difference between the fair value of the pension plan’s assets and the projected benefit obligation.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans  



Teradyne has defined benefit pension plans covering a portion of domestic employees and employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Benefits under these plans are based on employees’ years of service and compensation.
The assets of the U.S. qualified pension plan consist primarily of fixed income and equity securities.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne purchased a group annuity contract for its retiree participants in the U.S. qualified pension plan.
Under the group annuity, the accrued pension obligations  



32   



Table of Contents 



 for approximately 1,700 retiree participants were transferred to an insurance company.
During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne recorded a settlement loss of $0.3 million related to the retiree group annuity transaction.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne contributed $1.9 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan and $0.6 million to certain qualified pension plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, Teradyne’s net periodic pension cost was comprised of the following:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Postretirement Benefit Plan  



In addition to receiving pension benefits, Teradyne employees in the United States who meet early retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in Teradyne’s Welfare Plan, which includes medical and dental benefits up to age 65.
Death benefits provide a fixed sum to retirees’ survivors and are available to all retirees.
Substantially all of Teradyne’s current U.S. employees could become eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees.
33   



Table of Contents 



For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, Teradyne’s net periodic postretirement benefit cost (income) was comprised of the following:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Q.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  



Purchase Commitments  



As of September 30, 2018, Teradyne had entered into purchase commitments for certain components and materials.
The purchase commitments covered by the agreements aggregate to approximately $275.6 million, of which $263.3 million is for less than one year.
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 was 13.6% and 14.7%, respectively.
The decrease in the effective tax rate from the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 to the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily resulted from the benefit of the U.S. foreign derived intangible income deduction.
The effective rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was also reduced by the benefit of the U.S. foreign derived intangible income deduction.
Discrete tax items recorded in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 amounted to $0.2 million of expense and $6.5 million of benefit, respectively.
The $0.2 million of discrete tax expense recorded in the three months ended September 30, 2018 consisted of $1.1 million of expense related to non-taxable foreign exchange losses, partially offset by $0.5 million of benefit resulting from the resolution of an  



34   



Table of Contents 



 audit and $0.4 million of other discrete tax benefit.
The $6.5 million of discrete benefits recorded in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 consisted of $8.9 million of discrete tax benefit net of $2.4 million of discrete tax expense.
The $8.9 million of discrete tax benefit was composed of $7.8 million from stock based compensation, $0.5 million resulting from the resolution of an audit and $0.6 million of other discrete tax benefit.
Discrete tax items recorded in the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 amounted to expense of $0.3 million and benefit of $6.1 million, respectively.
The $0.3 million of discrete tax expense recorded in the three months ended October 1, 2017 was primarily composed of $0.8 million of expense related to non-taxable foreign exchange loss, partially offset by $0.2 million of benefit from reductions in tax reserves and $0.2 million of benefit from stock based compensation.
The $6.1 million of discrete tax benefit recorded in the nine months ended October 1, 2017 was primarily composed of $6.7 million of benefit from stock-based compensation, $0.7 million of benefit related to U.S. research and development tax credits, and $0.5 million of benefit from reductions in tax reserves, partially offset by $1.1 million of expense related to non-taxable foreign exchange loss, and $1.0 million of tax expense related to actuarial gains.
As of September 30, 2018, Teradyne believes that it will ultimately realize the deferred tax assets recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, Teradyne had $38.6 million and $36.3 million, respectively, of reserves for uncertain tax positions.
The $2.3 million net increase in reserves for uncertain tax positions is primarily composed of additions related to transfer pricing and U.S. research and development tax credits.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, $0.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively, of interest and penalties were accrued for uncertain tax positions.
Teradyne qualifies for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $8.9 million, or $0.05 per diluted share.
The tax savings due to the tax holiday for the nine months ended October 1, 2017 was $20.5 million, or $0.10 per diluted share.
The tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2020.
As of September 30, 2018, there has been no material change to the provisional amount recorded.
Any adjustment to the provisional amounts will be recorded in 2018 when the analysis is complete.
S. SEGMENT INFORMATION  



Teradyne has four reportable segments (Semiconductor Test, System Test, Industrial Automation and Wireless Test).
Each of the Semiconductor Test, System Test, and Wireless Test segments is also an individual operating segment.
The Industrial Automation reportable segment consists of operating segments with discrete financial information, which have been combined into one reportable segment as they share similar economic characteristics, types of products, production processes, distribution channels, and currency risks.
The Semiconductor Test segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of semiconductor test products and services.
The System Test segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of products and services for defense/aerospace instrumentation test, storage test and circuit-board test.
The Industrial Automation segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of collaborative robotic arms, autonomous mobile robots and advanced robotic control software.
The Wireless Test segment includes operations related to the design, manufacturing and marketing of wireless test products and services.
Teradyne evaluates performance based on several factors, of which the primary financial measure is business segment income (loss) before income taxes.
The accounting policies of the business segments in effect are described in Note B: “Accounting Policies” in Teradyne’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and Note B: “Accounting Policies” in this filing for any changes in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Segment information for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017 is as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



36   



Table of Contents 



 (1)  



Included in Corporate and Other are: contingent consideration adjustments, severance charges, interest income, interest expense, net foreign exchange gains (losses), intercompany eliminations and acquisition related charges.
(3)  



Total business assets are directly attributable to each business.
Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and certain other assets.
Included in the Semiconductor Test segment are charges in the following line items in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Included in the System Test segment are charges in the following line item in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Included in the Industrial Automation segment are charges in the following line items in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Included in the Wireless Test segment are charges and credits in the following line items in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



37   



Table of Contents 



Included in Corporate and Other are charges and credits in the following line items in the statements of operations:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



T. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  



Stock Repurchase Program  



In January 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors cancelled the December 2016 stock repurchase program and authorized a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of common stock.
Teradyne intends to repurchase $750 million in 2018.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, Teradyne repurchased 13.8 million shares of common stock for $562.3 million at an average price of $40.62 per share.
In December 2016, the Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase authorization which commenced on January 1, 2017.
During the nine months ended October 1, 2017, Teradyne repurchased 4.6 million shares of common stock for $151.8 million at an average price of $32.66 per share.
The total price includes commissions and is recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.
Dividend  



Holders of Teradyne’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends when they are declared by Teradyne’s Board of Directors.
In January 2018, May 2018 and August 2018, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share.
Dividend payments for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $16.6 million and $51.3 million, respectively.
In January 2017, May 2017 and August 2017, Teradyne’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share.
Dividend payments for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2017 were $13.8 million and $41.7 million, respectively.
While Teradyne declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, it may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future.
Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of Teradyne’s Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, Teradyne’s earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.
38   



Table of Contents 



 Item 1:  



Legal Proceedings  



We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen, in the ordinary course of business.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks that we face.
The tariff rate is expected to increase to 25% in January 2019.
On June 29, 2018, the United States Department of Commerce announced that it has commenced a review of new export controls focusing on emerging and foundational technologies.
The United States Department of Commerce from time to time has taken action to restrict the access of U.S.—origin technologies to Chinese companies by adding them to the Entity List under U.S.
Export Administration Regulations.
We plan to assess and implement, if appropriate, operational changes that would mitigate the impact of the retaliatory tariffs.
55   



Table of Contents
