 Item 2.
This commentary should be read in conjunction with the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.  



 Business Overview and Environment  



 TESSCO architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless broadband systems.
We have operations and office facilities in Hunt Valley, Maryland, Reno, Nevada and San Antonio, Texas.
The Company evaluates its business within two segments: commercial and retail.
The commercial segment consists of the following customer markets: (1) public carriers, that are generally responsible for building and maintaining the infrastructure system and provide airtime service to individual subscribers; and (2) value-added resellers and integrators, which is a newly identified market within our internal structure resulting from the implementation of an enhanced go-to-market strategy and the consolidation of our previously identified value-added resellers, government channels and private system operator markets.
This new strategy and the corresponding consolidation of these customer markets is expected to increase sales opportunities across this consolidated group as well as provide better coverage to customers and better align territories with supplier partners.
The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.
We offer a wide range of products that are classified into four product categories: base station infrastructure; network systems; installation, test and maintenance; and mobile device accessories.
Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunication systems.
Sales of traditional base station infrastructure products, such as base station radios, cable and transmission lines and antennas are in part dependent on capital spending in the wireless communications industry.
Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks.
We have also been growing our offering of wireless broadband, distributed antennas systems (DAS), network equipment, security and surveillance products, which are not as dependent on the overall capital spending of the industry.
Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, and maintain wireless communications equipment.
Mobile device accessories products include cellular phone and data device accessories.
Our third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue increased by 4.1% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
We experienced third quarter fiscal 2019 revenue growth within our commercial segment of 7.8% and a decrease in revenue in the retail segment of 2.1%, as compared to the third fiscal quarter of 2018.
Among our product categories, revenue increased in our base station infrastructure category by 18.7%.
Our third quarter fiscal year 2019 gross profit increased by 4.7%, compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2018.
The increase in gross profit was primarily the result of the increase in revenue discussed above.
Gross margin for the third quarter fiscal year 2019 and fiscal year 2018 was 20.4% and 20.2%, respectively.
Selling, General and Administrative expenses for the third quarter fiscal year 2019 were up 



 17  



 Table of Contents  



0.3% compared to the third quarter fiscal year 2018.
As a result of the factors discussed above, net income increased by 72.2% and diluted earnings per share increased by 68.4% compared to the prior-year quarter.
The terms, and accordingly the factors, applicable to each relationship often differ.
The wireless communications distribution industry is competitive and fragmented and is comprised of several national distributors.
In addition, many manufacturers sell direct.
Consolidation of larger wireless carriers has and will most likely continue to impact our current and potential customer base.
We believe, however, that our strength in service, the breadth and depth of our product offering, our information technology system, industry experience and knowledge, and our large customer base and purchasing relationships with approximately 440 manufacturers, provide us with a significant competitive advantage over new entrants to the marketplace.
18  



 Table of Contents  



 Results of Operations  



 Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2019 Compared Third Quarter of Fiscal Year 2018  



 Total Revenues.
Revenues for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased 4.1% compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Revenues in our public carrier market increased by 47.9%.
This growth was primarily driven by our ability to expand market share with Tier 1 Carrier installers and contractors.
Total Gross Profit.
Gross profit for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased by 4.7% compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Overall gross profit margin increased slightly from 20.2% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to 20.4% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier market increased by 44.2%.
Gross profit in our value-added resellers and integrators market decreased by 0.4%.
Within our retail segment, gross profit increased by 0.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to 2018.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $81,600 for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 18.7% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018, to 18.1% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were consistent as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018, despite the 4.1% increase in sales.
There was an increase of $0.5 million in corporate support expense, primarily related to bad debt expenses, an increase of $0.3 million in information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives, and an increase of $0.2 million in compensation and benefits expense, during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
These increases were offset by the $0.9 million decrease in marketing expense.
We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation.
We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation.
We incurred bad debt expense of $478,400 and $185,300 for the three months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017, respectively.
Interest, Net.
Net interest expense increased from $114,500 for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to $247,900 for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed 



 19  



 Table of Contents  



in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q).
We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.
Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share.
The effective tax rate decreased from 24.2% for the third quarter of fiscal 2018 to 16.9% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
The effective tax rate for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law and a reduction in the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, due to a lapse in the related statute of limitations.
The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act.
Net income increased 72.2% and diluted earnings per share increased 68.4% for the third quarter of fiscal 2019, compared to the corresponding prior-year quarter.
First Nine months of Fiscal Year 2019 Compared with First Nine months of Fiscal Year 2018  



 Total Revenues.
Revenues for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased 7.1% compared with the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Within our commercial segment, revenues in our public carrier market increased by 48.1%, largely due to increased spending among Tier 1 carrier and contractors customers, and also due in part to better execution of our selling strategy in this market.
The growth was partially offset by a decline in the value-added resellers and integrators market by 2.1%.
Total Gross Profit.
Gross profit for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 increased by 5.0% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Within our commercial segment, gross profit in our public carrier market and our value-added resellers and integrators market increased by 35.2% and 1.6%, respectively, for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
This growth in our commercial segment was partially offset by a decrease in our retail segment by 1.0%.
Overall gross profit margin decreased from 20.6% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to 20.2% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Agreements or arrangements on which these relationships are based typically do not include any obligation in respect of any specific product purchase or sale, are of limited duration, and are terminable by either party upon relatively short notice.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
Total selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $4.0 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 19.0% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018, to 18.6% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Information technology expense increased $1.4 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
We continue to invest in our information technology infrastructure to support our sales initiatives.
We continually evaluate the credit worthiness of our existing customer receivable portfolio and provide an appropriate reserve based on this evaluation.
We also evaluate the credit worthiness of prospective and current customers and make decisions regarding extension of credit terms to such customers based on this evaluation.
We incurred bad debt expense of $1,499,700 and $433,200 for the nine months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017, respectively.
We experienced several atypical bad debt events during fiscal year 2019 thus far, which have resulted in a higher than usual fiscal year 2019 year to date bad debt expense.
In addition, our bad debt expense for the same prior year period was unusually low, which affects the comparison.
Interest, Net.
Net interest expense increased from $339,600 for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to $667,100 for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
Increased focus on business opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers has required us to maintain increased inventory and accounts receivable levels, and at times has resulted in increased borrowings and interest expense under our secured Revolving Credit Facility (discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial statements, included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q).
We expect this higher level of interest expense to continue for at least the next several quarters.
Income Taxes, Net Income and Diluted Earnings per Share.
The effective tax rate decreased from 36.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2018 to 22.1% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019.
The effective tax rate for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was lower primarily due to a change in tax law.
The annual federal rate has dropped from 35% to 21% due to the Tax Act.
Our provision for income taxes decreased by 38.9% compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018, primarily as a result of reduced tax rate.
Net income increased by 25.5% and diluted earnings per share increased 22.9% for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared to the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 The following table summarizes our cash flows provided by or used in operating, investing and financing activities for the nine months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $7.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
This fiscal 2019 inflow was driven by net income plus depreciation and amortization, and partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable and inventory.
As such, on October 19, 2017 we entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as discussed below, based upon our then anticipated borrowing and cash needs.
Net cash used in investing activities of $4.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was up from 



 21  



 Table of Contents  



expenditures of $2.1 million for the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Cash used in both periods was due to capital expenditures largely comprised of investments in information technology.
Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.0 million for the first nine months of both fiscal 2019 and 2018.
We utilized our asset based secured Revolving Credit Facility during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, leading to a cash inflow of $6.1 million and $6.0 million, respectively, during those periods.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, we had cash outflows of $5.1 million and $5.0 million, respectively, due to cash dividends paid to shareholders.
On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with the Company’s primary lenders.
Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility previously established in June 2016, was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million.
In addition to expanding the borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement extends the applicable maturity date to October 19, 2021.
As of December 30, 2018, we had a $16.9 million balance on the secured Revolving Credit Facility; therefore, we had $58.1 million available, subject to the Borrowing Base limitations and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the financial and other covenants discussed in Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and the other Company affiliate borrowers and subsidiaries, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by the Loan Parties in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
On March 31, 2009, we entered into a term loan with the Baltimore County Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund for an aggregate principal amount of $250,000.
The term loan is payable in equal monthly installments of principal and interest of $2,300, with the balance due at maturity on April 1, 2019.
The term loan bears interest at 2.00% per annum and is secured by a subordinate position on our Hunt Valley, Maryland facility.
At December 30, 2018, the principal balance of this term loan was $9,200.
We have made quarterly dividend payments to holders of our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2010.
Our most recent quarterly cash dividend of $0.20 per share was paid in November 2018.
On January 23, 2019, we declared a quarterly cash dividend in the amount of $0.20 per share, payable on February 27, 2019 to shareholders of record as of February 13, 2019.
Any future declaration of dividends and the establishment of any corresponding record and payment dates remains subject to further determination from time to time by the Board of Directors.
We believe that our existing cash, payments from customers and availability under our secured Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to support our operations for at least the next twelve months.
To minimize interest expense, our policy is to apply excess available cash to reduce the balance outstanding from time to time on our secured Revolving Credit Facility.
Our increased focus over the past several quarters on business 



 22  



 Table of Contents  



opportunities for sales to our public carrier customers led to the recent expansion of our secured Revolving Credit Facility, and has at times resulted in increased borrowings and dependence on that facility.
We expect this trend to continue, although at present we have no plans for any further expansion of the facility.
If we were to undertake an acquisition or other major capital purchases that require funds in excess of existing sources of liquidity, we would look to sources of funding from additional credit facilities, debt and/or equity issuances.
As of December 30, 2018, we do not have any material capital expenditure commitments.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements   



 A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
For a detailed discussion on our critical accounting policies, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   



 We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements.
Consequently, the reader is cautioned to consider all forward-looking statements in light of the risks to which they are subject.
Available Information  



 Our internet website address is: www.tessco.com.
We make available free of charge through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Also available on our Website is our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
The Company’s management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.
A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.
Based on the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by Rules 13a-15(b) or 15d-15(b) of the Exchange Act, the Company’s management, including the CEO and CFO, have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
During the period covered by this quarterly report, there have been no changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to 



 24  



 Table of Contents  



materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
PART II.
OTHER INFORMATION  



 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
None.
