 Item 1.
Financial Statements.
TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  



 Consolidated Balance Sheets  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes.
3  



 Table of Contents  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  



 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes.
4  



 Table of Contents  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  



 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes.
5  



 Table of Contents  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated   



 Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements  



 Note 1.
Description of Business and Basis of Presentation  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
The information included in this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
Note 2.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted:  



 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, Leases.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
6  



 Table of Contents  



 Recently issued accounting pronouncements adopted:  



 Effective April 2, 2018, the Company adopted the FASB ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), and ASU 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of Effective Date, which deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year.
ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, and is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09, using the modified retrospective approach, had no significant impact on the timing of revenue recognition, our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.
The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet.
The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods.
As of July 1, 2018, the return asset and refund liability amounts were $1.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
In December 2017, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
7  



 Table of Contents  



 Note 3.
Stock-Based Compensation   



 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018 included $320,500 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2017 included $247,600 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
Performance Stock Units: The following table summarizes the activity under the Company’s PSU program under the 1994 Plan, for the first three months of fiscal 2019:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, on May 10, 2018, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to selected key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 71,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met.
These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by or associated with the Company on each such date.
The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018).
The PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2018 performance targets were not fully attained.
Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.
If all PSUs granted thus far in fiscal 2019 are assumed to be earned on account of the applicable performance metrics being fully met, total unrecognized compensation costs on these PSUs would be approximately $1.0 million, as of July 1, 2018, and would be expensed through fiscal 2022.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
Restricted Stock Units: The Company has made annual RSU awards under the 1994 Plan to its non-employee directors over recent years.
On May 10, 2018, the Compensation Committee approved the grant of an aggregate of 18,000 RSUs, ratably to the five non-employee directors of the Company, and to Mr. Barnhill.
In addition to this, effective June 6, 2018 Paul J. Gaffney was appointed to the Board of Directors and was granted 3,000 RSUs.
These RSU awards to non-employee directors and to Mr. Barnhill provide for the issuance of shares of the Company’s common stock in four equal installments, beginning on May 1 of the year following the award 



 8  



 Table of Contents  



and continuing on May first of each of the following three years, provided that the director remains associated with the Company (or meets other criteria as prescribed in the applicable award agreement) on each date.
On August 8, 2017, the Compensation Committee approved the grant of an aggregate of up to 56,000 RSUs to several senior executives.
Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date.
As of July 1, 2018, 8,000 of these 56,000 RSUs have been canceled due to employee departures, leaving 48,000 of these RSUs outstanding.
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.
PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to   



 be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.
The Company now accounts for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeitures.
Stock Options: As summarized below, in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, stock options for an aggregate of 49,000 shares of common stock were granted, all under the 1994 Plan.
These stock options have exercise prices equal to the market price of the Company’s stock on the grant date, and the terms thereof provide for 25% vesting after one year and then 1/36 per month over the following three years.
The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period.
This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.
The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 9  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 As of July 1, 2018, there was approximately $0.9 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards.
These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately three years.
Note 4.
Borrowings Under Revolving Credit Facility  



 On June 24, 2016, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, for a senior asset based secured revolving credit facility of up to $35 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”).
This replaced our then existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement.
The secured Revolving Credit Facility, as it was initially established, included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans.
Borrowing Availability under the secured Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established was determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves, as those terms were defined in the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement included financial and other covenants, and pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which included the obligations under the Credit Agreement, were guaranteed by those Loan Parties not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and all proceeds of the foregoing.
The security interests were granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time.
The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.
10  



 Table of Contents  



 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million.
In addition to expanding the Company’s borrowing limit, the secured Revolving Credit Facility maturity date was extended to October 19, 2021.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications.
Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement initially accrue interest from the applicable borrowing date at an Applicable Rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
The Eurodollar Rate is the rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) LIBOR by (ii) a percentage equal to 1.00 minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
When the Applicable Rate is the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Applicable Margin is 1.50% if Average Availability is greater than or equal to $15 million, and 1.75% otherwise.
On July 1, 2018, the interest rate applicable to borrowings under the replacement Revolving Credit Facility was 3.49%.
Under certain circumstances, the Applicable Rate is subject to change at the Lenders’ option from the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Following an Event of Default, in addition to changing the Applicable Rate to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Lenders’ may at their option set the Applicable Margin at 0.50% if the Base Rate applies or 1.75% if the Eurodollar Rate applies, and increase the Applicable Rate by an additional 200 basis points.
The Applicable Rate adjusts on the first Business Day of each calendar month.
The Company is required to pay a monthly Commitment Fee on the average daily unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, at a per annum rate equal to 0.25%.
In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and other Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by them in connection with the secured credit facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.
As of July 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $15.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $59.2 million available for borrowing as of July 1, 2018, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet.
As of April 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $10.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $64.2 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of April 1, 2018.
11  



 Table of Contents  



 Note 5.
As of April 1, 2018, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $112,700 ($87,200 net of federal benefit).
The cumulative amount included in the consolidated balance sheet as of July 1, 2018 was $255,900 (net of federal benefit).
The cumulative amount of interest and penalties included as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet as of April 1, 2018 was $250,500 (net of federal benefit).
A reconciliation of the changes in the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, is as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Note 6.
Earnings Per Share  



 The Company presents the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) on a basic and diluted basis.
Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the reported period.
Diluted earnings per share are computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued.
Common shares are excluded from the calculation if they are determined to be anti-dilutive.
At July 1, 2018, stock options with respect to 589,000 shares of common stock were outstanding, of which 60,000 were anti-dilutive.
There were no anti-dilutive PSUs or RSUs outstanding as of July 1, 2018 or June 25, 2017, respectively.
Note 7. Business Segments  



 The Company evaluates its business within two segments: commercial and retail.
The commercial segment consists of the following customer markets: (1) public carriers, that are generally responsible for building and maintaining the infrastructure system and provide airtime service to individual subscribers; (2) government including federal agencies and state and local governments that run wireless networks for their own use as well as value-added resellers who specialize in selling to the government; (3) private system operators including commercial entities such as enterprise customers, major utilities and transportation companies; and (4) value-



 12  



 Table of Contents  



added resellers that sell, install and/or service cellular telephone, wireless networking, broadband and two-way radio communications equipment primarily for the enterprise market.
The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.
To provide investors with better visibility, the Company also discloses revenue and gross profit by its four product categories:   



   ·    Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
·    Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks.
Products include fixed and mobile broadband equipment, distributed antenna systems (DAS), wireless networking, filtering systems, two-way radios and security and surveillance products.
This product category also includes training classes, technical support and engineering design services.
·    Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment.
Retail merchandising displays, promotional programs, customized order fulfillment services and affinity-marketing programs, including private label internet sites, complement our mobile devices and accessory product offering.
The Company evaluates revenue, gross profit, and income before provision for income taxes at the segment level.
13  



 Table of Contents  



 Segment activity for the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Supplemental revenue and gross profit information by product category for the first quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 14  



 Table of Contents  



 Note 8.
For the three months ended July 1, 2018 and June 25, 2017, the aggregate value of the shares withheld totaled $111,100 and $64,800, respectively.
Note 9.
For the fiscal quarters ended July 1, 2018 and June 25, 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10.0% of total consolidated revenues.
For the fiscal quarter ended July 1, 2018, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 14.2% and 8.0% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the fiscal quarter ended June 25, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 11.8% and 11.1% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
15  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
