 Item 1.
Financial Statements.
TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  



 Consolidated Balance Sheets  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
3  



 Table of Contents  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  



 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Income  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
4  



 Table of Contents  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  



 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
5  



 Table of Contents  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated  



 Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 See accompanying notes to unaudited consolidated financial statements.
6  



 Table of Contents  



 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated   



 Notes to Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements  



 Note 1.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
Note 2.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted:  



 In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No.
2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other–Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”).
This ASU aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods of public entities beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
7  



 Table of Contents  



 Recently issued accounting pronouncements adopted:  



 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, Leases.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach.
Therefore, the Company recorded a right-of-use asset of $4,398,300 and lease liabilities of $4,420,800 for operating leases as of June 30, 2019.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
The new standard changes the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.
Note 3.
Stock-Based Compensation   



 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019 includes $338,900 of non-cash stock-based compensation expense.
On June 4, 2019, the Board of Directors approved the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan of the Company, subject to shareholder approval, which occurred at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on July 25, 2019.
Effective upon shareholder approval of the 2019 Stock and Incentive Plan, no additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.
Performance Stock Units: The following table summarizes the activity under the Company’s PSU program under the 1994 Plan, for the first quarter of fiscal 2020:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to select key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 45,500 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether certain earnings per share targets, and individual performance metrics, are satisfied, for fiscal year 2020.
These not-yet-earned PSUs have only one measurement year (fiscal 2020), and assuming the performance 



 8  



 Table of Contents  



metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by or associated with the Company on each such date.
Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement.
The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2020 related to the fiscal 2019 grant of PSUs, which also had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019).
The PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2019 performance targets were not fully attained.
Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2020 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
Restricted Stock Units: The Company has made annual RSU awards under the 1994 Plan to its non-employee directors over recent years.
On May 10, 2019, the Compensation Committee approved the grant of an aggregate of 21,000 RSUs, ratably to the six non-employee directors, including the Chairman of the Board of the Company.
These RSU awards provide for the issuance of shares of the Company’s common stock in four equal installments beginning on May 10, 2020 and continuing on the same date in 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the director remains associated with the Company on each such date (or meets other criteria as prescribed in the applicable award agreement).
On August 8, 2017, the Compensation Committee, with the concurrence of the full Board of Directors, approved the grant of an aggregate of up to 56,000 RSUs to several senior executives.
Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date.
As of June 30, 2019, 8,000 of these 56,000 RSUs have been canceled due to employee departures, leaving 48,000 of the 56,000 RSUs outstanding.
As a result, an aggregate of 50,000 dividend-based RSUs currently remain outstanding.
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.
PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not 



 9  



 Table of Contents  



accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.
The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeitures.
To the extent that forfeitures occur, stock-based compensation related to the restricted awards may be different from the Company’s expectations.
Stock Options: As summarized below, in the first three months of fiscal 2020, stock options for an aggregate of 135,000 shares of common stock were granted, all under the 1994 Plan.
These stock options have exercise prices equal to the market price of the Company’s stock on the grant date, and the terms thereof provide for 25% vesting after one year and then 1/36 per month over the following three years, subject, however, to acceleration upon the occurrence of certain events, as described in the applicable award agreement.
The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period.
The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 As of June 30, 2019, there was approximately $1.0 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to these options.
These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately three years.
10  



 Table of Contents  



 Note 4.
Borrowings Under Revolving Credit Facility  



 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”), which amended and restated the terms of a previously established secured Revolving Credit Facility with the same lenders , and which provides for, among other things, an increase in the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million.
In addition to increasing the Company’s borrowing limit, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement extended the maturity date of the secured Revolving Credit Facility to October 19, 2021.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit, a $12.5 million sublimit for swingline loans and an accordion feature which, subject to certain conditions, could increase the aggregate amount of the commitments to up to $125 million, with the optional commitments being provided by existing Lenders or new lenders reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent.
No Lender is obligated to increase its commitment.
Availability is determined in accordance with a Borrowing Base, which has been expanded to include not only Eligible Receivables but also Eligible Inventory and is generally: (A) the sum of (i) 85% of Eligible Receivables; (ii) the Inventory Formula Amount for all Eligible Inventory which is aged less than 181 days; and (iii) the lesser of (x) $4 million and (y) the Inventory Formula Amount for all Eligible Inventory which is aged at least 181 days; minus (B) Reserves.
Upon closing, there was $23.4 million outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement initially accrue interest from the applicable borrowing date at an Applicable Rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
The Eurodollar Rate is the rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) LIBOR by (ii) a percentage equal to 1.00 minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
When the Applicable Rate is the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Applicable Margin is 1.50% if Average Availability is greater than or equal to $15 million, and 1.75% otherwise.
On June 30, 2019, the interest rate applicable to borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility was 3.94%.
Under certain circumstances, the Applicable Rate is subject to change at the Lenders’ option from the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Following an Event of Default, in addition to changing the Applicable Rate to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Lenders’ may at their option set the Applicable Margin at 0.50% if the Base Rate applies or 1.75% if the Eurodollar Rate applies, and increase the Applicable Rate by an additional 200 basis points.
The Applicable Rate adjusts on the first Business Day of each calendar month.
The Company is required to pay a monthly Commitment Fee on the average daily unused portion of the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, at a per annum rate equal to 0.25%.
In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under a Guaranty and Security Agreement previously delivered by them in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not 



 11  



 Table of Contents  



otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and as respects certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.
As of June 30, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $20.1 million and, therefore, the Company had $54.9 million available for borrowing as of June 30, 2019, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet.
As of March 31, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $14.4 million and, therefore, the Company had $60.6 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of March 31, 2019, again subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
Note 5.
Earnings Per Share  



 The Company presents the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) on a basic and diluted basis.
Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the reported period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued.
Common shares are excluded from the calculation if they are determined to be anti-dilutive.
The number of diluted weighted-average common shares would have been 8,708,182 if the Company was at a positive earning position.
At July 1, 2018, stock options with respect to 589,000 shares of common stock were outstanding, of which 60,000 were anti-dilutive.
There were no anti-dilutive PSUs or RSUs outstanding as of June 30, 2019 or July 1, 2018, respectively.
Note 6. Business Segments  



 The Company evaluates its business within two segments: commercial and retail.
The commercial segment consists of the following customer markets: (1) public carriers, that are generally responsible for building and maintaining the infrastructure system and provide airtime service to individual subscribers; and (2) value-added resellers and integrators, which results from the consolidation of our previously identified value-added resellers, government channels and private system operator markets, and reflects implementation over the 2019 fiscal year of an enhanced go-to-market strategy.
This go-to-market strategy and the corresponding consolidation of these customer markets is designed to increase sales opportunities across the consolidated markets, as well as to provide better coverage to customers and to better align territories with supplier partners.
In conjunction with our identification of the value-added resellers and integrators as a newly identified market, as described above, market revenue and gross profit as reported for the prior periods reflected in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been reclassified accordingly.
12  



 Table of Contents  



 The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.
To provide investors with better visibility, the Company also discloses revenue and gross profit by its four product categories:   



   ·    Base Station Infrastructure - Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
·    Network Systems - Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks.
This product category also includes training classes, technical support and engineering design services.
·    Installation, Test and Maintenance - Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment.
Retail merchandising displays, promotional programs, customized order fulfillment services and affinity-marketing programs, including private label internet sites, complement our mobile devices and accessory product offering.
The Company evaluates revenue, gross profit, and income before provision for income taxes at the segment level.
13  



 Table of Contents  



 Segment activity for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Supplemental revenue and gross profit information by product category for the first quarter of fiscal years 2020 and 2019 are as follows (in thousands):  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Note 7.
Leases  



 The Company leases certain office spaces and equipment.
Leases with an initial term of twelve months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet.
The Company’s leases include rental payments adjusted for inflation.
The right-of-use lease asset and lease liability are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
14  



 Table of Contents  



 Quantitative information regarding the Company’s leases is as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Note 8.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, the aggregate value of the shares withheld totaled $189,100 and $111,100, respectively.
Note 9.
For the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2019 and July 1, 2018, no customer accounted for more than 10% of total consolidated revenues.
For the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2019, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 21.5% of consolidated revenue.
Note 10.
Subsequent Event  



 The lease for the Company’s office space located at 375 West Padonia Road, Timonium, Maryland, 21093, and which includes approximately 102,164 rentable square feet, had been scheduled to end in December 2020.
In July 2019, the Company entered an amendment to the lease agreement to extend the lease term to December 



 15  



 Table of Contents  



2025.
Under the terms of this amendment, the base rental rate during the extended lease term ranges from $200,071 to $220,841 per month.
Future minimum payments under this amendment are as follow:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 16  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
Item 1A.
There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
