ITEM 1.
Financial Statements.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



2 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



3 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



4 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



5 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



Notes to financial statements 



1.
Description of business, including segment and geographic area information 



We design, make and sell semiconductors to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world.
We have two reportable segments, which are established along major categories of products as follows: 



•  



Analog – consisting of the following product lines: Power, Signal Chain and High Volume.
•  



Embedded Processing – consisting of the following product lines: Connected Microcontrollers and Processors.
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Segment information 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Geographic area information 



The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
The revenue information is not necessarily indicative of the geographic area in which the end applications containing our products are ultimately consumed because our products tend to be shipped to the locations where our customers manufacture their products.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(a)  



Revenue from products shipped into China, including Hong Kong, was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion in the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $3.3 billion and $3.1 billion in the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
6 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



2.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Certain information and note disclosures normally included in annual consolidated financial statements have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
The results for the three- and six-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
We have a variety of types of contracts with our customers and distributors.
In determining whether a contract exists, we evaluate the terms of the agreement, the relationship with the customer or distributor and their ability to pay.
Control is considered transferred when title and risk of loss pass, when the customer becomes obligated to pay and, where required, when the customer has accepted the products.
Transfer of control occurs at that point, when title and risk of loss transfers and the customer or distributor becomes obligated to pay for the products pulled from inventory.
Until the products are pulled for use or sale by the customer or distributor, we retain control over the products’ disposition, including the right to pull back or relocate the products.
These allowances, which are not material, generally include adjustments for pricing arrangements, product returns and incentives.
The length of time between invoicing and payment is not significant under any of our payment terms.
We monitor collectability of accounts receivable primarily through review of accounts receivable aging.
When collection is at risk, we assess the impact on amounts recorded for bad debts and, if necessary, record a charge in the period such determination is made.
We recognize shipping fees, if any, received from customers in revenue.
We include shipping and handling costs in COR.
The majority of our customers pay these fees directly to third parties.
7 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



Earnings per share (EPS) 



Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to receive dividends or dividend equivalents, such as our restricted stock units (RSUs), are considered to be participating securities and the two-class method is used for purposes of calculating EPS.
Under the two-class method, a portion of Net income is allocated to these participating securities and, therefore, is excluded from the calculation of EPS allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Computation and reconciliation of earnings per common share are as follows (shares in millions): 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Potentially dilutive securities representing 5 million and 6 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, and during the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share for these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Derivatives and hedging 



We use derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to foreign exchange risk.
These instruments are primarily forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which are used as economic hedges to reduce the earnings impact that exchange rate fluctuations may have on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of these forward foreign currency exchange contracts are credited or charged to OI&E.
We do not apply hedge accounting to our foreign currency derivative instruments.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
8 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
Fair values of financial instruments 



The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of June 30, 2018.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
The carrying value of our long-term debt approximates the fair value as measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
See Note 4 for a description of fair value and the definition of Level 2 inputs.
Changes in accounting standards – adopted standards for current period 



ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  



This standard provides a single set of guidelines for revenue recognition to be used across all industries and requires additional disclosures.
We adopted Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606 (ASC 606) as of January 1, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition method applied only to contracts that were not completed as of the adoption date.
The reported results for 2018 reflect the application of the new accounting guidance, while the reported results for prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historical accounting under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition (ASC 605).
Although royalty income is recorded within OI&E, the new revenue guidance applies to these agreements by analogy, and therefore, such agreements have been evaluated for ASC transition considerations.
We have determined that the value of these agreements is allocated more heavily to the initial performance obligation.
As a result, income from these agreements is recognized predominately at the time of contract execution rather than ratably over the life of the agreements, accelerating the timing of when we recognize royalty income in OI&E.
The time frame between when the customer places an order for products and when it is shipped is less than 12 months.
We recognized an increase to opening retained earnings of $206 million, net of taxes, as of January 1, 2018, due to the cumulative impact of adopting ASC 606, with the impact primarily related to our fixed payment patent licensing agreements that were not completed as of the adoption date.
A contract asset of $283 million and deferred tax liabilities of $55 million were recorded as of January 1, 2018, related to the transition period adjustments.
Occasionally, as of the end of a reporting period, some of the performance obligations associated with contracts will have been unsatisfied or only partially satisfied.
In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, we do not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
For royalty income from licensing our patent portfolios, income is allocated to performance obligations that have not yet been satisfied.
The remaining performance obligations represent contracted income that has not yet been recognized, including amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as income in future periods.
As of June 30, 2018, we had $72 million of remaining performance obligations that had not yet been satisfied.
As of June 30, 2018, we had contract assets of $275 million.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, our contract assets were reduced by $8 million, due to $16 million of cash received offset by $8 million of income recognized.
9 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



We incur commission expenses paid to internal sales personnel that are incremental to obtaining contracts with customers.
We generally expense sales commissions when incurred because the amortization period would have been one year or less.
These costs are included in SG&A.
Other standards 



The following standards were adopted during the current period and did not have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in accounting standards – standards not yet adopted 



ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) 



This standard requires all leases that have a term of over 12 months to be recognized on the balance sheet with the liability for lease payments and the corresponding right-of-use asset initially measured at the present value of amounts expected to be paid over the term.
Recognition of the costs of these leases on the income statement will be dependent upon their classification as either an operating or a financing lease.
We do not expect to have any financing leases at the time of adoption.
This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2019, and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis.
In July 2018, the FASB approved an optional transition method to initially account for the impact of the adoption with a cumulative-effect adjustment to the January 1, 2019, rather than the January 1, 2017, financial statements.
This will eliminate the need to restate amounts presented prior to January 1, 2019.
We will adopt the standard effective January 1, 2019, and we expect to elect this optional transition method, as well as certain practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the standard.
ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments 



This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of having been incurred.
This standard will be effective for our interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2020, and permits earlier application but not before periods beginning January 1, 2019.
The standard will be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
ASU No.
The provisions from this guidance are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after January 1, 2019.
Early adoption is permitted.
This standard should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period (or periods) in which the effects of the Tax Act are recognized.
We plan to adopt this standard during the interim period in which we complete our accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act, applying the guidance to the period of adoption.
We are currently evaluating the potential impact of this standard on our financial position.
3.
Income taxes 



Our Provision for income taxes was $301 million and $430 million for the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $488 million and $688 million for the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017.
In the first quarter of 2018, we reduced the amount of income tax expense recorded for indefinitely reinvested earnings to $669 million from $714 million recorded in 2017.
These adjustments did not affect the estimated annual effective tax rate for 2018.
Valuation of debt and equity investments and certain liabilities 



Debt and equity investments 



We classify our investments as available for sale, trading, equity method or non-marketable equity.
Most of our investments are debt securities, which are classified as available for sale.
Available-for-sale and trading securities are stated at fair value, which is generally based on market prices or broker quotes.
See Fair-value considerations below.
Unrealized gains and losses from available-for-sale debt securities are recorded as an increase or decrease, net of taxes, in AOCI on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We classify certain mutual funds as trading securities.
These mutual funds hold a variety of debt and equity investments intended to generate returns that offset changes in certain deferred compensation liabilities.
We record changes in the fair value of these mutual funds and the related deferred compensation liabilities in SG&A.
These investments consist of interests in venture capital funds and other non-marketable equity securities.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first six months of 2018 and 2017.
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $1.38 billion and $1.27 billion for the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $2.83 billion and $2.39 billion for the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The following table presents the aggregate maturities of our available-for-sale investments as of June 30, 2018: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Other-than-temporary declines and impairments in the values of our available-for-sale investments, which were recognized in OI&E, were not material in the first six months of 2018 and 2017.
Fair-value considerations 



We measure and report certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.
The three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair-value measurements.
•  



Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
•  



Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active.
Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data.
We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations.
We verify these valuations for reasonableness relative to unadjusted quotes obtained from brokers or dealers based on observable prices for similar assets in active markets.
12 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



•  



Level 3 – Uses inputs that are unobservable, supported by little or no market activity and reflect the use of significant management judgment.
These values are generally determined using pricing models that utilize management estimates of market participant assumptions.
The following are our assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



5.
Goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles 



Goodwill was $4.36 billion as of June 30, 2018, and December 31, 2017.
There was no impairment of goodwill during the first six months of 2018 or 2017.
The components of Acquisition-related intangibles are as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles was $79 million for the second quarters of both 2018 and 2017, and $159 million for the first six months of both 2018 and 2017.
Fully amortized assets are written off against accumulated amortization.
6.
Postretirement benefit plans 



Expense related to defined benefit and retiree health care benefit plans is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



13 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



7.
Debt and lines of credit 



Short-term borrowings 



We maintain a line of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through bank loans.
As of June 30, 2018, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2023.
The interest rate on borrowings under this credit facility, if drawn, is indexed to the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
As of June 30, 2018, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.
Long-term debt 



We retired $500 million of maturing debt in May 2018.
In the second quarter of 2018, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2048, comprised of the issuance of $1.3 billion in May 2018 and an additional $200 million in June 2018.
We incurred $16 million of issuance and other related costs.
We received $1.5 billion in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount and premium, to be used for general corporate purposes.
Long-term debt outstanding is as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest and debt expense was $30 million and $20 million for the second quarters of 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $53 million and $38 million for the first six months of 2018 and 2017, respectively.
This was net of the amortization of the debt discounts, premiums and debt issuance costs.
Capitalized interest was not material.
14 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



8.
Historically, we have had only minimal, infrequent losses associated with these indemnities.
Consequently, we cannot reasonably estimate any future liabilities that may result.
During the periods presented, there have been no material accruals or payments regarding product warranty or product liability.
Historically, we have experienced a low rate of payments on product claims.
Our stated warranties for semiconductor products obligate us to repair, replace or credit the purchase price of a covered product back to the buyer.
General 



We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings.
9.
Supplemental financial information 



Acquisition charges 



Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation.
These amounts are included in Other for segment reporting purposes, consistent with how management measures the performance of its segments.
See Note 5 for additional information.
Restructuring charges/other 



Restructuring charges/other are included in Other for segment reporting purposes.
We have recognized $21 million of restructuring charges on a cumulative basis through June 30, 2018, for severance and benefit costs related to the previously reported reorganization of the product lines within our two reportable segments.
We have paid $18 million to terminated employees for severance and benefits.
Any further charges are not expected to be material.
We have recognized $36 million of restructuring charges on a cumulative basis through June 30, 2018, for severance and benefits costs, as well as accelerated depreciation, related to the phase out of a manufacturing facility in Greenock, Scotland.
The remaining charges are expected to be recognized through 2019.
Changes in accrued restructuring balances are as follows: 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(a)  



Reflects charges for impacts of accelerated depreciation and changes in exchange rates.
15 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES  



Details on amounts reclassified out of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, to Net income 



Our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income include items that have been recognized within Net income during the first six months of 2018 and 2017.
The table below details where these transactions are recorded in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



(a)  



Detailed in Note 6.
Stock compensation 



Total shares of 2,135,405 and 9,028,819 were issued from treasury shares during the second quarter and first six months of 2018, respectively, related to stock compensation.
16
