ITEM 1.
Financial statements



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



3



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



4



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



5



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 



Notes to financial statements



1.
Description of business, including segment and geographic area information



We design, make and sell semiconductors to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world.
We have two reportable segments, which are established along major categories of products as follows:



•Analog – consisting of the following product lines: Power, Signal Chain and High Volume.
•Embedded Processing – consisting of the following product lines: Connected Microcontrollers and Processors.
Other includes operating segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds for individually reportable segments and cannot be aggregated with other operating segments.
Other includes DLP® products, calculators and custom ASIC products.
Our centralized manufacturing and support organizations, such as facilities, procurement and logistics, provide support to our operating segments, including those in Other.
Costs incurred by these organizations, including depreciation, are charged to the segments on a per-unit basis.
Consequently, depreciation expense is not an independently identifiable component within the segments’ results and, therefore, is not provided.
Segment information



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



6



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES



Geographic area information



The following geographic area information includes revenue based on product shipment destination.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(a)Revenue from products shipped into China was $1.9 billion and $2.0 billion in the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $5.4 billion and $5.3 billion in the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
2.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
The results for the three- and nine-month periods are not necessarily indicative of a full year’s results.
Significant accounting policies and practices



Leases



We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Lease assets represent our right to use underlying assets for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligations to make lease payments over the lease term.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
We use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Our lease values include options to extend or not to terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise such options.
We have agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are accounted for as a single lease component.
Leases with an initial lease term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet; we recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
7



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 



Earnings per share (EPS)



We use the two-class method for calculating EPS because the restricted stock units (RSUs) we grant are participating securities containing non-forfeitable rights to receive dividend equivalents.
Under the two-class method, a portion of net income is allocated to RSUs and excluded from the calculation of income allocated to common stock, as shown in the table below.
Computation and reconciliation of earnings per common share are as follows (shares in millions):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Potentially dilutive securities representing 6 million and 4 million shares of common stock that were outstanding during the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, and 7 million and 4 million shares outstanding during the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively, were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share during these periods because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
Derivatives and hedging



We use derivative financial instruments to manage exposure to foreign exchange risk.
These instruments are primarily forward foreign currency exchange contracts, which are used as economic hedges to reduce the earnings impact that exchange rate fluctuations may have on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures.
Gains and losses from changes in the fair value of these forward foreign currency exchange contracts are credited or charged to OI&E.
We do not apply hedge accounting to our foreign currency derivative instruments.
In connection with the issuance of long-term debt, we may use financial derivatives such as treasury-rate lock agreements that are recognized in AOCI and amortized over the life of the related debt.
The results of these derivative transactions have not been material.
We do not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
8



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 



Fair values of financial instruments



The fair values of our derivative financial instruments were not material as of September 30, 2019.
Our investments in cash equivalents, short-term investments and certain long-term investments, as well as our deferred compensation liabilities, are carried at fair value.
The carrying values for other current financial assets and liabilities, such as accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate fair value due to the short maturity of such instruments.
As of September 30, 2019, the carrying value of long-term debt, including the current portion, was $5.80 billion, and the estimated fair value was $6.32 billion.
The estimated fair value is measured using broker-dealer quotes, which are Level 2 inputs.
See Note 4 for a description of fair value and the definition of Level 2 inputs.
Changes in accounting standards – adopted standards for current period



ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842)



We adopted ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (ASC 842) effective January 1, 2019, using the modified retrospective transition method applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the adoption date.
In addition, we elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance that allowed us to apply prior conclusions related to lease definition, classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of $229 million of lease liabilities with corresponding lease assets as of January 1, 2019.
Other standards



The following standards were also adopted:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Changes in accounting standards – standards not yet adopted



ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments



This standard requires entities to use a current lifetime expected credit loss methodology to measure impairments of certain financial assets.
Using this methodology will result in earlier recognition of losses than under the current incurred loss approach, which requires waiting to recognize a loss until it is probable of being incurred.
Credit losses relating to available-for-sale debt securities will be recorded through an allowance for credit losses rather than as a reduction to the amortized cost basis of the securities.
We plan to adopt this standard when effective, beginning January 1, 2020, applying the guidance on a modified retrospective basis.
We plan to adopt these standards as of their effective dates.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



3.
See Fair-value considerations below.
Unrealized gains and losses from available-for-sale debt securities are recorded as an increase or decrease, net of taxes, in AOCI on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
We classify certain mutual funds as trading securities.
These mutual funds hold a variety of debt and equity investments intended to generate returns that offset changes in certain deferred compensation liabilities.
We record changes in the fair value of these mutual funds and the related deferred compensation liabilities in SG&A.
Non-marketable equity securities are measured at cost with adjustments for observable changes in price or impairments.
Gains and losses on non-marketable equity investments are recognized in OI&E.
We did not recognize any credit losses related to available-for-sale investments for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018.
Proceeds from sales, redemptions and maturities of short-term available-for-sale investments were $220 million and $1.72 billion for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $2.00 billion and $4.55 billion for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The following table presents the aggregate maturities of our available-for-sale debt investments as of September 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



There were no other-than-temporary declines and impairments in the values of our debt investments in the first nine months of 2019 or 2018.
Fair-value considerations



We measure and report certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis.
The three-level hierarchy discussed below indicates the extent and level of judgment used to estimate fair-value measurements.
•Level 1 – Uses unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.
•Level 2 – Uses inputs other than Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date through correlation with market data, including quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets and quoted prices in markets that are not active.
Level 2 also includes assets and liabilities that are valued using models or other pricing methodologies that do not require significant judgment since the input assumptions used in the models, such as interest rates and volatility factors, are corroborated by readily observable data.
We utilize a third-party data service to provide Level 2 valuations.
•Level 3 – Uses inputs that are unobservable, supported by little or no market activity and reflect the use of significant management judgment.
These values are generally determined using pricing models that utilize management estimates of market participant assumptions.
As of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had no Level 3 assets or liabilities.
11



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES



The following are our assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



5.
Goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles



Goodwill was $4.36 billion as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
There was no impairment of goodwill during the first nine months of 2019 or 2018.
The components of acquisition-related intangibles are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Acquisition charges



Acquisition charges represent the ongoing amortization of intangible assets resulting from the acquisition of National Semiconductor Corporation.
These amounts are included in Other for segment reporting purposes, consistent with how management measures the performance of its segments.
Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles was $79 million and $80 million for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $238 million and $239 million for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Fully amortized assets are written off against accumulated amortization.
12



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES



6.
Postretirement benefit plans



Expense related to defined benefit and retiree health care benefit plans is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7.
Debt and lines of credit



Short-term borrowings



We maintain a line of credit to support commercial paper borrowings, if any, and to provide additional liquidity through bank loans.
As of September 30, 2019, we had a variable-rate revolving credit facility from a consortium of investment-grade banks that allows us to borrow up to $2 billion until March 2024.
The interest rate on borrowings under this credit facility, if drawn, is indexed to the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
As of September 30, 2019, our credit facility was undrawn, and we had no commercial paper outstanding.
Long-term debt



We retired $750 million of maturing debt in August 2019.
In the first quarter of 2019, we issued a principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2039.
We received $743 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
In the third quarter of 2019, we issued a principal amount of $750 million of fixed-rate, long-term debt due in 2029.
We received $748 million in proceeds, net of the original issuance discount, to be used for general corporate purposes.
13



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES



Long-term debt outstanding is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest and debt expense was $43 million and $36 million for the third quarters of 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $125 million and $89 million for the first nine months of 2019 and 2018, respectively.
This was net of the amortized discounts, premiums and issuance costs.
Capitalized interest was not material.
14



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES



8.
Stockholders’ equity



Changes in equity are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



15



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



9.
Leases



We conduct certain operations in leased facilities and also lease a portion of our data processing and other equipment.
In addition, certain long-term supply agreements to purchase industrial gases are accounted for as operating leases.
Lease agreements frequently include renewal provisions and require us to pay real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.
Historically, we have had only minimal, infrequent losses associated with these indemnities.
During the periods presented, there have been no material accruals or payments regarding product warranty or product liability.
Historically, we have experienced a low rate of payments on product claims.
General



We are subject to various legal and administrative proceedings.
17



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES 



11.
Supplemental financial information



Restructuring charges/other 



Restructuring charges/other are included in Other for segment reporting purposes.
In April 2019, we sold our manufacturing facility in Greenock, Scotland.
Details on amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, to net income



Our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income include items that have been recognized within net income during the third quarters and first nine months of 2019 and 2018.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



(a)Detailed in Note 6.
Stock compensation



Total shares of 4,404,183 and 13,381,166 were issued from treasury shares during the third quarter and first nine months of 2019, respectively, related to stock compensation.
18
