 Item 1.
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



(Unaudited and in thousands, except share and per share data)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
5  



Table of Contents 



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



March 31, 2018  



1.
Nature of the Business  



Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc. (the “Company” or “we”) is a leading provider of branded and design assets, technology and expertise for creative professionals and consumer device manufacturers.
Our solutions, which include type, branded mobile content, visual content marketing solutions, custom design services, and tools and technologies that enable the creative process are licensed through our direct sales channel, e-commerce platforms and partner platforms.
We also provide consumer device manufacturers and independent software vendors, or ISVs, with the right solutions for delivering consistent, compelling user experiences.
We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and we operate in one business segment: the development, marketing and licensing of design assets and technology.
We also maintain various offices worldwide for selling and marketing, research and development and administration.
At March 31, 2018, we conduct our operations through five domestic operating subsidiaries, Monotype Imaging Inc., Monotype ITC Inc. (“ITC”), MyFonts Inc. (“MyFonts”), Swyft Media Inc. and Olapic, Inc., and six foreign operating subsidiaries, Olapic Argentina S.A., Monotype Ltd. (“Monotype UK”), Monotype GmbH (“Monotype Germany”), Monotype Solutions India Pvt.
Ltd. (“Monotype India”), Monotype Hong Kong Ltd. (“Monotype Hong Kong”) and Monotype KK (“Monotype Japan”).
2.
Basis of Presentation  



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements as of March 31, 2018 and for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries and have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) for interim financial reporting and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.
In management’s opinion, these unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements contain all adjustments of a normal recurring nature necessary for a fair presentation of the financial statements for the interim periods presented.
These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, as reported in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company’s significant accounting policies and practices are as described in the Annual Report, except for the adoption of the accounting standards described in Note 3 below.
Prior year amounts have also been restated to conform to current presentation.
We classify cloud-based subscriptions and other services, such as font related services, custom font design and post contract support as service revenue on our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
3.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



Adopted  



Revenue Recognition  



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and the International Accounting Standards Board jointly issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASC 606”), which outlines a comprehensive five-step revenue recognition model based on principle that replaces virtually all existing revenue recognition rules under U.S. GAAP and which requires revenue to be recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
ASU 2014-09 also provided the guidance in ASC Topic 340, Other Assets and Deferred Costs—Contracts with Customers (Subtopic 340- 



6  



Table of Contents 



 40), which includes criteria for the capitalization and amortization of certain contract acquisition and fulfillment costs.
The standard requires retrospective application; however, it allows entities to choose either full retrospective adoption, in which the standard is applied to all of the periods presented, or modified retrospective adoption, in which the cumulative catch-up adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings is recognized at the date of application, with additional disclosures required to describe these effects.
We adopted the standard on January 1, 2018, and applied the modified retrospective method of adoption and have elected to apply the new standard only to contracts not completed at January 1, 2018, which represents contracts for which all (or substantially all) of the revenues have not been recognized under existing guidance as of the date of adoption.
The cumulative effect of the adoption on our condensed consolidated balance sheet, by applying the modified retrospective method as of January 1, 2018, is as follows (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 (1) Contract assets, short term are included in the accounts receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
(3) Capitalized contract costs, long term are included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
(4) Deferred revenue, long term is included in other long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
In addition, we recognized additional royalty expenses totaling approximately $2.2 million, or $0.05 per share, upon the adoption of ASC 606, as an indirect effect of a change in accounting principle.
These amounts are included in cost of revenue – license in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
7  



Table of Contents 



The following reflects the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheet and condensed consolidated statement of operations on an as reported basis and as if we had continued to recognize revenue under the guidance of ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition, which is also referred to herein as “legacy GAAP” (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following summarizes the significant changes under ASC 606 as compared to legacy GAAP:  



   •   Under legacy GAAP, revenue related to our term licenses that were bundled with service-related performance obligations when vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) did not exist was required to be recognized ratably over the term of the agreement.
The application of this provision is particularly impactful to our new Mosaic product offering which was launched in the first quarter of 2018.
This new offering bundles our traditional font licenses with a SaaS based portal, which under legacy GAAP would have been recognized ratably.
•   We have a limited number of contracts in which we offered extended payment terms for term licenses to our customers, including cases in which the license is delivered in full at the beginning of the contract.
Under legacy GAAP, revenue was recognized when the payments became due, based upon the requirement that the fee be fixed or determinable.
However, under the new guidance, revenue related to such arrangements is accelerated, with revenue related to the license recognized at the time of delivery, less a financing component (interest income) to be recognized over time based on the payment terms.
This also impacts new contracts that we sign in 2018.
•   Under legacy GAAP, we recognized royalty revenue when it was reported to us by the licensee, typically one quarter after royalty-bearing units were shipped, at which time the fee is fixed or determinable.
Thus, revenue from royalties reported to us in the first quarter of 2018 were recorded to retained earnings upon adoption of ASC 606, rather than being recognized as revenue as it would have been under legacy GAAP.
This was partially offset by the recognition of revenue in the first quarter of 2018 for estimated royalties that will be reported to us in the second quarter of 2018.
Please see Note 4 for the Company’s policies related to revenue recognition and accounting for costs to obtain and fulfill a customer contract.
Statement of Cash Flows  



In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash, which requires companies to include amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted.
We adopted ASU 2016-18 on January 1, 2018 and reflected restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents in the beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts on the cash flows, on a retrospective basis.
As of result of this adoption, the beginning-of-period amount on the statement of cash flows increased $18.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017, respectively, to include restricted cash and restricted cash equivalent balances.
The end-of-period amount on the statement of cash flows increased $16.0 million and $18.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, to include restricted cash and restricted cash equivalent balances.
Stock Compensation  



In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting.
This guidance clarifies when companies would apply modification accounting to changes to the terms or conditions of a stock based payment award.
The guidance narrows the definition of a modification.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
We adopted ASU 2017-09 on January 1, 2018 and there was no material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Pension Benefits  



In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-07, Compensation-Retirement Benefits (Topic 715)-Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.
This guidance revises the presentation of the net periodic benefit cost in the income statement.
The new standard will be effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
We adopted ASU 2017-07 on January 1, 2018 and there was no material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Pending  



Derivatives  



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities.
Further, the new guidance allows more flexibility in the requirements to qualify and maintain hedge accounting.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods.
Goodwill  



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which eliminated step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted for testing dates after January 1, 2017.
9  



Table of Contents 



Leases  



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842): Amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, which replaces the existing guidance for leases.
ASU 2016-02 requires the identification of arrangements that should be accounted for as leases by lessees.
In general, for lease arrangements exceeding a twelve-month term, these arrangements must now be recognized as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet of the lessee.
Under ASU 2016-02, a right-of-use asset and lease obligation will be recorded for all leases, whether operating or financing, while the income statement will reflect lease expense for operating leases and amortization/interest expense for financing leases.
The balance sheet amount recorded for existing leases at the date of adoption of ASU 2016-02 must be calculated using the applicable incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption.
In addition, ASU 2016-02 requires the use of the modified retrospective method, which will require adjustment to all comparative periods presented in the consolidated financial statements.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and requires retrospective application.
The Company is currently developing its implementation plan and assessing the impact that adopting ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
4.
Revenue Recognition  



We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of a promised good or service.
We adopted ASC 606 on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method for all contracts not completed as of the date of adoption.
The adoption of ASC 606 represents a change in accounting principle that will more closely align revenue recognition with the delivery of our products and services and will provide financial statement readers with enhanced disclosures.
Nature of Licenses and Services & Timing of Revenue Recognition  



Creative Professional Revenue  



Our Creative Professional revenue is primarily derived from rights to use font licenses, from custom font design services from and hosted software as a service, or SaaS, offerings.
We license fonts directly to end-users through our direct sales organization, e-commerce websites and indirectly through third-party resellers.
Web font and digital ad related services refer to our web font services and web design tools.
Our customers include graphic designers, advertising agencies, media organizations and corporations.
Revenue from font licenses is recognized upfront when the font software is delivered or made available to the customer.
Custom font design services are generally not a separate distinct performance obligation and are sold with a license for the custom font, in which case revenue is recognized upon completion of the services and when the font is delivered and accepted by the customer.
In limited cases, the Company has an enforceable right to payment prior to final delivery and acceptance of custom font design work.
In these cases the Company has determined that the proper treatment is a single over-time performance obligation using input methods (incurred hours towards completion) to measure progress towards completion to determine the pattern of satisfaction of the performance obligation.
For our hosted offerings where we provide our customers the right to access our software without taking possession, revenue is recognized over the contract period on a time-elapsed basis, which is consistent with the transfer of service to the customer.
Payment terms and conditions for Creative Professional contracts generally require payment within thirty to sixty days of contract inception.
An exception exists for certain contracts for our SaaS offerings or a limited number of multi-year term license agreements which have periodic payment terms, generally quarterly or annually, over the term of the contract.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the respective payment terms, we have considered whether such contracts include a significant financing component, subject to the applicable practical expedient.
The purpose of these payment structures is to align with industry and market standards, not to provide customers with financing.
10  



Table of Contents 



OEM Revenue  



Our OEM revenue is derived substantially from printer imaging, printer driver and display imaging products.
Revenue from fixed fee licenses is generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software embodying the font is shipped or made available to the customer.
Certain OEM contracts may include customer support services and unspecified updates for our font technology which is a distinct stand-ready performance obligation and recognized ratably over the service period.
Other licenses have terms that typically range from one fiscal quarter to five years, and usually provide for automatic or optional renewals.
Disaggregated Revenue  



The following table presents our revenue disaggregated by the timing of revenue recognition as well as by type of product or services offered (See Note 12 for further information regarding revenue by major markets and revenue by geography):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Significant Judgments  



Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
Once we determine the performance obligations, the Company determines the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any.
We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price method.
The corresponding revenue is recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied as discussed in the revenue categories above.
Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
With the exception of OEM royalty licenses, our contracts do not generally include a variable component to the transaction price.
If royalties are not yet reported to us for the period in which the subsequent sale is expected to occur, we are required to estimate such royalties.
When a new contract is signed for the licensing of IP on a per-unit basis, we deliver the licenses and based on ongoing discussions with the customer, will estimate when the distribution will begin and estimate royalties based on distribution forecasts provided by the customer.
Revenue related to the estimation of per-unit royalties was $4.3 million for three months ended March 31, 2018.
11  



Table of Contents 



As discussed above, certain of our Creative Professional contracts have payment terms that differ from the timing of revenue recognition which requires us to assess whether the transaction price for those contracts include a significant financing component.
For those contracts in which the period exceeds the one year threshold, this assessment, as well as the quantitative estimate of the financing component and its relative significance, requires judgment.
We estimate the significant financing component provided to our customers with extended payment terms by determining the present value of the future payments by applying a discount rate that reflects the customer’s creditworthiness.
Of these amounts, approximately $20.2 million is expected to be recognized as revenue within the next 12 months, with substantially all of the remainder expected to be recognized as revenue within the following 24 month period, as shown in the table below (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Contract Balances  



Timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers.
We record an unbilled receivable, or contract asset, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing when we have an enforceable right to payment.
Revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the period was approximately $6.8 million.
Revenue recognized during the three month ended March 31, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, is approximately $4.3 million.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the change in contract assets reclassified to receivables as a result of the right to the transaction consideration becoming unconditional was not material.
We have determined that certain commissions paid under our sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized.
The amount capitalized for incremental costs to obtain contracts as of March 31, 2018 was $1.4 million; of which $0.5 million was short-term and has been included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $0.9 million was long term and has been included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Costs to obtain a contract are amortized as sales and marketing expense over the expected period of benefit in a manner that is consistent with the transfer of the related goods or services to which the asset relates.
The judgments made in determining the amount of costs incurred include whether the commissions are in fact incremental and would not have occurred absent the customer contract and the estimate of the amortization period, which ranges between three and ten years depending on the nature of the performance obligations within the contract.
These costs are periodically reviewed for impairment; however, no impairment existed as of March 31, 2018.
We capitalize incremental costs incurred to fulfill our contracts that (i) relate directly to the contract, (ii) are expected to generate resources that will be used to satisfy the Company’s performance obligation under the contract, and (iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated under the contract.
Contract fulfillment costs primarily relate to font license fees that we pay on certain fonts that are owned by third parties.
These fees are related to license revenue that is satisfied at a point in time and payable again upon license renewal, and as a result are incurred immediately upon contract execution.
Accordingly, there are no capitalized costs related to costs to fulfill a contract as of March 31, 2018.
12  



Table of Contents 



5.
Fair Value Measurements  



The following table presents our financial assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value, classified according to the three categories described above (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company’s recurring fair value measures relate to short-term investments, which are classified as cash equivalents, derivative instruments and from time-to-time as contingent consideration.
The fair value of our derivatives is based on quoted market prices from various banking institutions or an independent third-party provider for similar instruments.
In determining the fair value, we consider our non-performance risk and that of our counterparties.
At March 31, 2018, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.4 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value; and at December 31, 2017, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.5 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.
The Company’s non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities subject to non-recurring measurements include goodwill and intangible assets.
13  



Table of Contents 



6.
Intangible Assets  



Intangible assets as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were as follows (dollar amounts in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



7.
Debt  



On September 15, 2015, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, the Company’s subsidiary Monotype Imaging Inc., any financial institution that becomes a Lender (as defined therein) and Silicon Valley Bank, as agent which provides for a five-year $150.0 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Facility permits the Company to request that the Lenders, at their election, increase the secured credit facility to a maximum of $200.0 million.
The Credit Facility is available to the Company on a revolving basis through September 15, 2020.
Repayment of any amounts borrowed is not required until maturity of the Credit Facility; however, the Company may repay any amounts borrowed at any time, without premium or penalty.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had $90.0 million and $93.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, available borrowings under the Credit Facility have been reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $59.5 million and $56.5 million available for borrowing at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear a variable rate not less than zero based upon, at the Company’s option, either LIBOR or the higher of (i) the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal, and (ii) 0.5% plus the overnight federal funds rate, plus in each case, an applicable margin.
The applicable margin for LIBOR loans, based on the applicable leverage ratio, is 1.25%, 1.50% or 1.75% per annum, and the applicable margin for base rate loans, based on the applicable leverage ratio, is either 0.25%, 0.50% or 0.75% per annum.
At March 31, 2018, our rate, inclusive of applicable margins, was 3.6% for LIBOR, and at December 31, 2017, our rate, inclusive of applicable margins, was 3.1% for LIBOR.
As of March 31, 2018, the maximum leverage ratio permitted was 3.00:1.00 and our leverage ratio was 2.24:1.00 and the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.25:1.00 and our fixed charge ratio was 3.42:1.00.
Failure to comply with these covenants, or the occurrence of an event of default, could permit the Lenders under the New Credit Agreement to declare all amounts borrowed under the New Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable.
In addition, the Credit Facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of the Company’s and its domestic subsidiaries’ tangible and intangible property by a pledge of all of the equity interests of the Company’s direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries and by a pledge by the Company’s domestic subsidiaries of 65% of the equity of their direct foreign subsidiaries, subject to limited exceptions.
The Company was in compliance with the covenants under the Credit Facility as of March 31, 2018.
8.
Defined Benefit Pension Plan  



Our German subsidiary maintains an unfunded defined benefit pension plan which covers substantially all employees who joined the company prior to the plan’s closure to new participants in 2006.
Participants are entitled to benefits in the form of retirement, disability and surviving dependent pensions.
Benefits generally depend on years of service and the salary of the employees.
14  



Table of Contents 



The components of net periodic benefit cost included in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations were as follows (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



9.
Of this amount, $4.6 million is recorded as a reduction of deferred tax assets and $2.2 million is classified as long-term liabilities.
Because of the complexities involved in determining the previously unremitted earnings and profits of all our foreign subsidiaries, the Company is still in the process of obtaining, preparing, and analyzing the required information, as permitted in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118.
The Company recorded an initial estimate of the tax on unremitted earnings of approximately $0.2 million, however, this amount was offset by available foreign tax credits, and as a result the net estimated amount payable related to the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings was zero.
10.
Net Loss Per Share  



For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, earnings was not allocated to participating securities in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share as there were net losses.
For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the net loss available to common shareholders was divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period to calculate diluted earnings per share.
15  



Table of Contents 



The following presents a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic net loss per share and a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of diluted net loss per share (in thousands, except share and per share data):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following common share equivalents have been excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



11.
Stock Based Compensation  



We account for stock based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic No.
718, Compensation – Stock Compensation, which requires the measurement of compensation costs at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $37.8 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to employees and directors unvested stock options and restricted stock awards that are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.6 years.
16  



Table of Contents 



12.
Segment Reporting  



We view our operations and manage our business as one segment: the development, marketing and licensing of design assets and technologies.
The following table presents revenue for these two major markets (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Geographic segment information  



We market our products and services principally through offices in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, China, Republic of Korea and Japan.
We report revenue based on the geographic location of our customers.
The following table summarizes revenue by customer location (in thousands of dollars, except percentages):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Long-lived assets, which include property and equipment, goodwill and intangibles, but exclude other assets, long-term investments and deferred tax assets, are attributed to geographic areas in which Company assets reside and is shown below (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



13.
Commitments and Contingencies  



Legal Proceedings  



From time-to-time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
Accordingly, there are no liabilities recorded for these warranties as of March 31, 2018 or December 31, 2017.
14.
The record date is set for July 2, 2018, and the dividend is payable to shareholders of record on July 20, 2018.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on actual cash from operations, the Company’s financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
Future dividend declarations, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, will be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings  



From time to time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
Item 1A.
