 Item 1.
Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



(Unaudited and in thousands, except share and per share data)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
6   



Table of Contents 



MONOTYPE IMAGING HOLDINGS INC.  



NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



March 31, 2019  



1.
Nature of the Business  



Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc. (the “Company” or “we”) is a leading global provider of branded and design assets, technology and expertise for creative professionals and consumer device manufacturers.
We provide high-quality creative assets and technology solutions across multiple devices and mediums.
Our solutions, which include type, visual content marketing solutions, custom design services, and tools and technologies that enable the creative process are licensed through our direct sales channel, e-commerce platforms and partner platforms.
We also provide consumer device manufacturers and independent software vendors, or ISVs, with the right solutions for delivering consistent, compelling user experiences.
We are headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts and we operate in one business segment: the development, marketing and licensing of design assets and technology.
We also maintain various offices worldwide for selling and marketing, research and development and administration.
At March 31, 2019, we conduct our operations through four domestic operating subsidiaries, Monotype Imaging Inc., Monotype ITC Inc. (“ITC”), MyFonts Inc. (“MyFonts”) and Olapic, Inc., and six foreign operating subsidiaries, Olapic Argentina S.A., Monotype Ltd. (“Monotype UK”), Monotype GmbH (“Monotype Germany”), Monotype Solutions India Pvt.
Ltd. (“Monotype India”), Monotype Hong Kong Ltd. (“Monotype Hong Kong”) and Monotype KK (“Monotype Japan”).
2.
These unaudited condensed consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018, as reported in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Company’s significant accounting policies and practices are as described in the Annual Report, except for the adoption of the accounting standards described in Note 3 below.
Statement of Operations  



We classify cloud-based subscriptions and other services, such as font related services, custom font design and post contract support as service revenue on our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
For the quarter ended March 31, 2018, to conform to current year presentation, we reclassified restructuring charges to disclose the expense amount separately from other operating expenses.
Previously the expense amounts were included within the following other operating expense line items:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See Note 14 for further details.
3.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



Adopted  



Leases  



In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842): Amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, (“ASU 2016-02”) which replaces the existing guidance for leases.
ASU 2016-02 requires the identification of arrangements that should be accounted for as leases by lessees.
In general, for lease arrangements exceeding a twelve-month term, these arrangements must now be recognized as assets and liabilities on the balance sheet of the lessee.
Under ASU  



7   



Table of Contents 



 2016-02, a right-of-use asset and lease obligation will be recorded for all leases, whether operating or financing, while the income statement will reflect lease expense for operating leases and amortization/interest expense for financing leases.
The balance sheet amount recorded for existing leases at the date of adoption of ASU 2016-02 must be calculated using the applicable incremental borrowing rate at the date of adoption.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
We adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019.
We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things allows us to carryforward the historical lease classification.
We also elected the practical expedient that allows an accounting policy election to exclude right of use assets and lease obligations from the balance sheet for all leases with an initial term of 12 months or less.
As permitted in the standard, the Company is using a modified retrospective approach, where current periods are shown under the new standard, while comparative periods are shown under Accounting Standard Codification No.
840, Leases (prior to the adoption of ASU 2016-02), where entities recognize a cumulative effect to retained earnings at the date of adoption without restating prior periods’ balances or disclosures.
The most significant impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-02 was the recognition of additional right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases.
At adoption, the Company recognized right-of-use assets of approximately $14.4 million and total lease liabilities of $15.9 million.
Derivatives  



In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities.
Further, the new guidance allows more flexibility in the requirements to qualify and maintain hedge accounting.
The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods.
We adopted ASU 2017-12 on January 1, 2019 and there was no material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Comprehensive Income  



In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, Income Statement—Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.
The new standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018.
Pending  



Internal Use Software  



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-15, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other – Internal-Use Software (Topic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation of Cost Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is Considered a Service Contract, (“ASU 2018-15”).
This update clarifies the accounting for implementation costs related to a cloud computing arrangement that is a service contract previously defined in ASU 2015-05.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
Defined Benefit Pension Plan  



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-14, Compensation—Retirement Benefits—Defined Benefit Plans—General: Disclosure Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, (“ASU 2018-14”).
This guidance eliminates requirements for certain disclosures and requires certain additional disclosures concerning the company’s defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2020, with early adoption permitted.
8   



Table of Contents 



Fair Value Measurement  



In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework—Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement, (“ASU 2018-13”).
This guidance is designed to improve the effectiveness of the disclosure.
The new standard is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
Goodwill  



In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which eliminated step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
This guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted.
4.
Nature of Licenses and Services & Timing of Revenue Recognition  



Creative Professional Revenue  



Our Creative Professional revenue is primarily derived from rights to use font licenses, custom font design services, our web font and digital ad related services (which includes our web font services and web design tools), and hosted software as a service, or SaaS, offerings.
We license fonts directly to end-users through our direct sales organization, e-commerce websites and indirectly through third-party resellers.
Our customers include graphic designers, advertising agencies, media organizations and corporations.
Revenue from font licenses is recognized upfront when the font software is delivered or made available to the customer.
Custom font design services are generally not a separate distinct performance obligation and are sold with a license for the custom font, in which case revenue is recognized upon completion of the services and when the font is delivered and accepted by the customer.
In limited cases, the Company has an enforceable right to payment prior to final delivery and acceptance of custom font design work.
In these cases, the Company has determined that the proper treatment is a single over-time performance obligation using input methods (incurred hours towards completion) to measure progress towards completion to determine the pattern of satisfaction of the performance obligation.
For our hosted offerings where we provide our customers the right to access our software without taking possession, revenue is recognized over the contract period on a time-elapsed basis, which is consistent with the transfer of service to the customer.
Payment terms and conditions for Creative Professional contracts generally require payment within thirty to sixty days of contract inception.
An exception exists for certain contracts for our SaaS offerings or a limited number of multi-year term license agreements which have periodic payment terms, generally quarterly or annually, over the term of the contract.
In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the respective payment terms, we have considered whether such contracts include a significant financing component, subject to the applicable practical expedient.
The purpose of these payment structures is to align with industry and market standards, not to provide customers with financing.
Revenue from fixed fee licenses is generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software embodying the font is shipped or made available to the customer.
Certain OEM contracts may include customer support services and unspecified updates for our font technology which is a distinct stand-ready performance obligation and recognized ratably over the service period.
Other licenses have terms that typically range from one fiscal quarter to five years, and usually provide for automatic or optional renewals.
Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment.
Once we determine the performance obligations, the Company determines the transaction price, which includes estimating the amount of variable consideration to be included in the transaction price, if any.
We then allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract based on a relative stand-alone selling price method.
The corresponding revenue is recognized as the related performance obligations are satisfied as discussed in the revenue categories above.
Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation.
We determine standalone selling price based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations.
With the exception of OEM royalty licenses, our contracts do not generally include a variable component to the transaction price.
When a new contract is signed for the licensing of IP on a per-unit basis, we deliver the licenses and based on ongoing discussions with the customer, will estimate when the distribution will begin and estimate royalties based on distribution forecasts provided by the customer.
Revenue related to the estimation of per-unit royalties was $5.7 million and $4.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As discussed above, certain of our Creative Professional contracts have payment terms that differ from the timing of revenue recognition which requires us to assess whether the transaction price for those contracts include a significant financing component.
For those contracts in which the period exceeds the one year threshold, this assessment, as well as the quantitative estimate of the financing component and its relative significance, requires judgment.
We estimate the significant financing component provided to our customers with extended payment terms by determining the present value of the future payments by applying a discount rate that reflects the customer’s creditworthiness.
Transaction Price Allocated to Future Performance Obligations  



The aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to performance obligations consists principally of amounts billed for undelivered services that are included in deferred revenue, as well as unbilled backlog, which is the amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations, for enforceable contracts when there is not a present  



10   



Table of Contents 



 unconditional right to invoice (a receivable).
Substantially all the long-term amount is expected to be recognized as revenue within the following 24 month period.
We record an unbilled receivable, or contract asset, when revenue is recognized prior to invoicing when we have an enforceable right to payment.
Revenue recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 from amounts included in deferred revenue at the beginning of the periods were approximately $5.7 million and $6.8 million, respectively.
Revenue recognized during the three month ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 from performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in previous periods, mainly due to changes in the estimate of royalty revenues, is approximately $5.7 million and $4.3 million, respectively.
We have determined that certain commissions paid under our sales incentive programs meet the requirements to be capitalized.
The amount capitalized for incremental costs to obtain contracts as of March 31, 2019 was $3.8 million, of which $0.7 million was short-term and has been included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $3.1 million was long term and has been included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The amount capitalized for incremental costs to obtain contracts as of December 31, 2018 was $3.6 million, of which $0.7 million was short-term and has been included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $2.9 million was long term and has been included in other assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Costs to obtain a contract are amortized as sales and marketing expense over the expected period of benefit in a manner that is consistent with the transfer of the related goods or services to which the asset relates.
The judgments made in determining the amount of costs incurred include whether the commissions are in fact incremental and would not have occurred absent the customer contract and the estimate of the amortization period, which ranges between three and ten years depending on the nature of the performance obligations within the contract.
These costs are periodically reviewed for impairment; however, no impairment existed as of March 31, 2019 or as of December 31, 2018.
We capitalize incremental costs incurred to fulfill our contracts that (i) relate directly to the contract, (ii) are expected to generate resources that will be used to satisfy the Company’s performance obligation under the contract, and (iii) are expected to be recovered through revenue generated under the contract.
Contract fulfillment costs primarily relate to font license fees that we pay on certain fonts that are owned by third parties.
Accordingly, there are no capitalized costs related to costs to fulfill a contract as of March 31, 2019 or as of December 31, 2018.
11   



Table of Contents 



5.
Restricted Cash  



Cash and cash equivalents that are restricted as to withdrawal or use under the terms of contractual agreements are classified on our balance sheet based on relevant restrictions.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, we had $6.0 million and $6.0 million, respectively, of cash held in escrow to be used for payments due in 2019 in connection with the Olapic, Inc. acquisition.
The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheet that sum to the total of the same such amounts shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



6.
Fair Value Measurements  



The following table presents our financial assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company’s recurring fair value measures relate to short-term investments, which are classified as cash equivalents, derivative instruments and from time-to-time as contingent consideration.
The fair value of our derivatives is based on quoted market prices from various banking institutions or an independent third-party provider for similar instruments.
At March 31, 2019, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.6 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.
At December 31, 2018, we had one 30-day forward contract to sell 2.7 million British pounds sterling and purchase $3.4 million that together, had an immaterial fair value.
12   



Table of Contents 



The Company’s non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities subject to non-recurring measurements include goodwill and intangible assets.
7.
Intangible Assets  



Intangible assets as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were as follows (dollar amounts in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



8.
Leases  



We have operating leases for corporate offices and certain equipment.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 year to 6 years, some of which contain options to extend the leases for up to 5 years and some which include options to terminate the leases within 1 year.
We have lease agreements with lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for separately.
We determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Operating leases are included in the operating lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and the short-term and long-term lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Pursuant to the terms of the lease agreement for the Company’s NY office, the Company obtained a standby letter-of-credit in the amount of approximately $0.5 million as security on the lease obligation.
The letter-of credit is a reduction of the available borrowings under the Credit facility.
The components of lease expense were as follows (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



13   



Table of Contents 



Supplemental cash flow information related to leases was as follows (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases was as follows (in thousands except remaining lease term and discount rate):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As of March 31, 2019, we have additional operating leases, primarily for corporate offices, that have not yet commenced of $1.8 million.
These operating leases will commence in 2019 with lease terms of 2 to 5 years.
Maturities of operating lease liabilities were as follows (in thousands):  



Twelve months ending March 31: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Maturities of lease liabilities as of December 31, 2018 were as follows:  



Years ending December 31:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



9.
Debt  



On March 22, 2019, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the “New Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, the Company’s subsidiary, Monotype Imaging Inc., (“the Borrower”), any financial institution that becomes a Lender and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent.
Pursuant to the New Credit Agreement the Lenders have agreed to provide the Borrower with a five-year $200.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”).
The Credit Facility permits the Company to request that the Lenders, at their election, increase the secured credit facility to a maximum of $300.0 million.
The Credit Facility provides more flexibility in addition to an increased borrowing capacity and extended terms, as defined above.
The New Credit Agreement replaced the Company’s existing $150.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Original Credit Agreement”) by and between the Company and Silicon Valley Bank.
The Original Credit Agreement was terminated effective March 22, 2019 and was scheduled to expire on September 15, 2020.
The Company had $75.0 million outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement at December 31, 2018.
Available borrowings under the Original Credit Agreement were reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $74.5 million available for borrowings at December 31, 2018.
At March 31, 2019, the Company had $70.0 million outstanding under the Credit Facility.
Available borrowings under the Credit Facility have been reduced by approximately $0.5 million for one standby letter of credit issued in connection with a facility lease agreement, leaving $129.5 million available for borrowings at March 31, 2019.
14   



Table of Contents 



Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest through March 21, 2024 at a variable rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus between 1.0% and 1.625%, or at the Borrower’s option, the higher of (i) the prime rate as announced by Bank of America and (ii) 0.5% plus the overnight federal funds rate, plus in each case, between 0.0% and 0.625%, with the exact interest rate margin determined based on the consolidated leverage ratio.
The Company is required to pay a commitment fee, based on the consolidated leverage ratio, equal to 0.175%, 0.20%, 0.225% or 0.25% per annum on the undrawn portion available under the revolving credit facility and variable per annum fees in respect of outstanding letters of credit.
In connection with the New Credit Agreement, the Company incurred closing and legal fees of approximately $0.9 million, which have been accounted for as deferred financing costs, that, together with approximately $0.3 million of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with loan syndicate lenders who participated in the new facility, will be amortized to interest expense over the term of the New Credit Agreement.
In addition, $34 thousand of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the pro-rata share of prior loan syndicate lenders that did not participate in the new facility were written off and charged to other expense in the first quarter of 2019.
The New Credit Agreement includes financial covenants which require the Company to maintain (i) a consolidated leverage ratio of no greater than 3.25 to 1.0 or, upon a qualified acquisition subject to certain conditions, 3.75 to 1.0 and (ii) a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.00 to 1.0.
At March 31, 2019, our consolidated leverage ratio was 0.72 to 1.0 and our consolidated interest coverage ratio was 18.61 to 1.0.
Adjusted EBITDA, under the Credit Facility, is defined as consolidated net earnings (or loss), plus net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and share based compensation expense, plus acquisition expenses not to exceed $2.0 million, minus capitalized research and development expense, plus restructuring, issuance costs, cash non-operating costs and other expenses or losses minus cash non-operating gains and other non-cash gains; provided, however that the aggregate of all cash non-operating expense shall not exceed 10% of Consolidated EBITDA.
The New Credit Agreement also provides for a number of customary events of default, including, among others, payment, bankruptcy, covenant, representation and warranty, change of control and judgment defaults.
Failure to comply with these covenants, or the occurrence of an event of default, could permit the Lenders under the New Credit Agreement to declare all amounts borrowed under the New Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable.
15   



Table of Contents 



10.
11.
Net Income (Loss) Per Share  



For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the net income (loss) available to common shareholders was divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period to calculate diluted earnings per share.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the two-class method was used in the computation of diluted net income (loss) per share, as the result was more dilutive.
The following presents a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic net income (loss) per share and a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share (in thousands, except share and per share data):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



16   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following common share equivalents have been excluded from the computation of diluted weighted-average shares outstanding, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



12.
Stockholders’ Equity  



Stock purchases  



On May 3, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a share purchase program permitting repurchases of up to $25.0 million of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock through June 7, 2019.
To date, 1,261,400 shares have been purchased under the plan for an aggregate purchase price of $23.9 million, including brokers’ fees.
The share repurchase program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and the program may be suspended or discontinued at management’s and/or the Company’s Board of Directors’ discretion.
17   



Table of Contents 



Stock Based Compensation  



We account for stock based compensation in accordance with ASC Topic No.
718, Compensation – Stock Compensation, which requires the measurement of compensation costs at fair value on the date of grant and recognition of compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest.
13.
Segment Reporting  



We view our operations and manage our business as one segment: the development, marketing and licensing of technologies and fonts.
The following table presents revenue for these two major markets (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Geographic segment information  



We market our products and services through offices in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, China, Republic of Korea and Japan.
We report revenue based on the geographic location of our customers.
For example, licenses may be sold to large international companies, which may be headquartered in the Republic of Korea, such revenues would be reported in the Republic of Korea and included in the revenue for Rest Of World in the table below.
The following table summarizes revenue by customer location (in thousands of dollars, except percentages):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



18   



Table of Contents 



Long-lived assets, which includes right of use assets, property and equipment, goodwill and intangibles, but exclude other assets, long-term investments and deferred tax assets, are attributed to geographic areas in which Company assets reside and is shown below (in thousands):  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



14.
Restructuring  



In December 2017, the Company implemented a restructuring plan to accelerate the integration of the Olapic business into the core of Monotype in an effort to improve operational efficiencies and to align its investment in the Olapic business to better support it over time.
The plan provided for the elimination of 89 positions worldwide.
As part of this plan, the Company recorded charges of approximately $3.0 million for severance and termination benefits and $0.2 million of facilities and associated costs.
This restructuring was completed in the third quarter of 2018.
On June 6, 2018, the Company implemented a restructuring plan, under which the Company reduced headcount in certain areas of the Company, made the decision to cease sales and marketing of the Swyft product and service line and to close a regional office, all in an effort to improve operational efficiencies.
The plan provided for the elimination of approximately 50 positions worldwide across a variety of functions, with a concentration within engineering, as well as sales and marketing.
The Company recorded net charges totaling $6.8 million related to severance and termination benefits, net of stock based compensation reversal, the write off of goodwill and intangible assets attributable to Swyft, the acceleration of the final deferred compensation payment to the founders of Swyft, and charges associated with the office closure.
We reversed $1.4 million of stock based compensation expense as a result of forfeitures of awards by employees included in the restructuring plan.
In the three months ended March 31, 2019, the severance and termination accrual was reduced based the completion of certain final termination agreements.
This restructuring plan was completed by December 31, 2018, other than the payment of deferred termination benefits to certain terminated employees.
The Company continued to refine its cost structure, and in December 2018, implemented a restructuring plan in an effort to improve operational efficiencies.
The plan provided for the elimination of 15 positions worldwide, including the positions held by two of the Olapic founders.
To date, the Company recorded charges of approximately $1.0 million for severance and termination benefits associated with this plan and $0.9 million of accelerated expense associated with the final deferred compensation payment in connection with the departure of those founders.
In addition, $0.9 million was recorded for additional stock based compensation expense associated with the acceleration of the vesting of those departing founders’ equity grants in accordance with the separation agreements.
We expect this restructuring plan to be completed by the second quarter of 2019, other than the payment of deferred termination benefits to certain terminated employees.
19   



Table of Contents 



15.
Commitments and Contingencies  



Legal Proceedings  



From time-to-time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
Accordingly, there are no liabilities recorded for these warranties as of March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018.
16.
Subsequent Events  



Stock Purchase Program  



Subsequent to March 31, 2019, the Company purchased 44,600 shares of common stock for $0.9 million, at an average price per share of $20.19 through April 19, 2019.
The Company purchased these shares on the open market at prevailing market prices and in accordance with its previously announced share purchase program.
At April 19, 2019, $0.3 million remains for future purchase under the Plan.
Dividend Declaration  



On April 18, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared an $0.116 per share quarterly cash dividend on our outstanding common stock.
The record date is set for July 1, 2019, and the dividend is payable to shareholders of record on July 19, 2019.
Dividends are declared at the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and depend on actual cash from operations, the Company’s financial condition and capital requirements and any other factors the Company’s Board of Directors may consider relevant.
Future dividend declarations, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, will be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings  



From time to time, we may be a party to various claims, suits and complaints.
Item 1A.
