Item 4.
Controls and Procedures  



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  



Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of June 30, 2019.
The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules



 13a-15(e) and 



15d-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide a reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives.
Part I.
OTHER INFORMATION     



Item 1.
Item 1A.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



(a)



 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities  



None.
(b) 



Use of proceeds 



Not applicable.
37 



Table of Contents  



(c)



Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers



The following table provides information about purchases by the Company during the quarter ended June 30, 2019 of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act:  



Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc.
The price paid by the Company was determined pursuant to the terms of either the 2007 Award Plan or the 2010 Inducement Plan and related restricted stock agreements.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



Not applicable.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  



Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information  



None.
Item 6.
Exhibits  



The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits are filed as part of this Quarterly Report on Form



 10-Q and such Exhibit Index is incorporated herein by reference.
38 



Table of Contents 



EXHIBIT INDEX 



Listed and indexed below are all exhibits filed as part of this report.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 * 



Filed herewith.
** 



Furnished herewith.
39 



Table of Contents  



SIGNATURES  



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



40
