 Item 2.
Discrete semiconductors and passive components manufactured by Vishay are used in virtually all types of electronic products, including those in the industrial, computing, automotive, consumer electronic products, telecommunications, power supplies, military/aerospace, and medical industries.
We operate in five product segments: MOSFETs; Diodes; Optoelectronic Components; Resistors & Inductors; and Capacitors.
Since 1985, we have pursued a business strategy of growth through focused research and development and acquisitions.
Through this strategy, we have grown to become one of the world's largest manufacturers of discrete semiconductors and passive components.
We expect to continue our strategy of acquisitions while also maintaining a prudent capital structure.
We are focused on enhancing stockholder value and improving earnings per share.
In addition to our growth plan, we also have opportunistically repurchased our stock.
In 2014, our Board of Directors instituted a quarterly dividend payment program and declared the first cash dividend in the history of Vishay.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased by 26% to $0.085 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
In December 2015, we amended our credit facility to increase our ability to repurchase shares of stock or pay cash dividends.
The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million pursuant to the stock repurchase plan that expired on June 1, 2018.
No repurchases were made in 2018.
In the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we issued $600 million convertible senior notes due 2025.
We used the net proceeds from the issuance of these notes to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amount of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively.
We recognized a loss of $17.3 million due to the early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible senior debentures.
As part of the amendment and restatement of the revolving credit facility in December 2015, we completed an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, with consideration of the amount of cash that can be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
We repatriated $38 million and $46 million to the U.S. pursuant to this plan in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
As a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") in December 2017, we terminated the aforementioned cash repatriation plan and replaced it with a plan to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1.2 billion and accrued additional provisional tax expense.
We repatriated approximately $274.0 million and $450.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively.
Substantially all of the amounts repatriated in the second fiscal quarter were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
A portion of the amounts repatriated in the third fiscal quarter were used to eliminate the remaining outstanding balance of the credit facility.
The provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the enactment of the TCJA included these amounts paid in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018.
As permitted by Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No.
118, the net tax expense recorded in our financial statements due to the enactment of the TCJA for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, and adjusted in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018 is considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates.
We are continuing to collect and analyze detailed information that could impact this amount and may record further adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period defined in SAB No.
118, as additional analysis is completed.
For several years, we implemented aggressive cost reduction programs.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, we substantially completed our cost reduction programs, which had been ongoing since 2013.
Our cost reduction programs are more fully described in Note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1, and in "Cost Management" below.
See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
See further discussion in "Financial Metrics" and "Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources" below.
In the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we retrospectively adopted two new accounting standards, which impacted previously reported net revenues, gross profit margin, and segment operating income.
The amounts previously reported for these metrics have been recast.
See additional information in Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
We continued to experience excellent business conditions in virtually all end-markets in the third fiscal quarter of 2018.
Net revenues continued to increase and are significantly higher than the prior year quarter.
The key financial metrics continue to be strong even as distributors, particularly of semiconductor products in Asia, normalized their backlogs during the third fiscal quarter.
38 



Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were $781.0 million, compared to $761.0 million and $677.9 million for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were $77.9 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, compared to $103.1 million, or $0.65 per share for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018, and $64.4 million, or $0.41 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2017.
Net revenues for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were $2,258.8 million, compared to $1,925.9 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017.
The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were $243.3 million, or $1.55 per diluted share, compared to $157.3 million, or $1.01 per diluted share for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017.
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business.
We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
The reconciliations below include certain financial measures which are not recognized in accordance with GAAP, including adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash.
These non-GAAP measures should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity.
Non-GAAP measures such as adjusted net earnings, adjusted earnings per share, and free cash do not have uniform definitions.
These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Management believes that adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share are meaningful because they provide insight with respect to our intrinsic operating results.
Management believes that free cash is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends.
The items affecting comparability are (in thousands, except per share amounts): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



39 



Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Our results for the fiscal quarters ended September 29, 2018, June 30, 2018, and September 30, 2017 and nine fiscal months ending September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017 represent the effects of a strong business environment, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives.
We experienced a relatively sharp upturn in demand beginning in the first quarter of 2017 that has continued through first nine fiscal months of 2018 and further improved results.
Distributors, particularly of semiconductor products in Asia, normalized their backlogs in the third fiscal quarter, which negatively impacted the book-to-bill ratio.
Our free cash results for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were significantly impacted by the payment of cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million related to the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively, and the payment of the first $14.4 million installment of the U.S. transition tax in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
These key financial measures and metrics include net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, and the book-to-bill ratio.
Gross profit margin is computed as gross profit as a percentage of net revenues.
Operating margin is computed as gross profit less operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues.
We evaluate business segment performance on segment operating margin.
Segment operating margin is computed as operating income less items such as restructuring and severance costs, asset write-downs, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments, inventory write-downs, gains or losses on purchase commitments, global operations, sales and marketing, information systems, finance and administrative groups, and other items, expressed as a percentage of net revenues.
We believe that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the segment.
End-of-period backlog is one indicator of future revenues.
We include in our backlog only open orders that we expect to ship in the next twelve months.
Therefore, the backlog is not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for future periods.
A book-to-bill ratio that is greater than one indicates that our backlog is building and that we are likely to see increasing revenues in future periods.
Conversely, a book-to-bill ratio that is less than one is an indicator of declining demand and may foretell declining revenues.
We focus on our inventory turnover as a measure of how well we are managing our inventory.
We define inventory turnover for a financial reporting period as our costs of products sold for the four fiscal quarters ending on the last day of the reporting period divided by our average inventory (computed using each fiscal quarter-end balance) for this same period.
A higher level of inventory turnover reflects more efficient use of our capital.
The erosion of average selling prices of established products is typical for semiconductor products.
Our specialty passive components are more resistant to average selling price erosion.
41 



The quarter-to-quarter trends in these financial metrics can also be an important indicator of the likely direction of our business.
The following table shows net revenues, gross profit margin, operating margin, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, and changes in ASP for our business as a whole during the five fiscal quarters beginning with the third fiscal quarter of 2017 through the third fiscal quarter of 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
(1) Operating margin for the third and fourth fiscal quarters of 2017 includes $3.2 million and $6.1 million, respectively, of restructuring and severance expenses (see Note 4 to our consolidated condensed financial statements).
See "Financial Metrics by Segment" below for net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, and gross profit margin broken out by segment.
Revenues increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and third fiscal quarter of 2017.
Distributors, particularly of semiconductor products in Asia, normalized their backlogs in the third fiscal quarter, which decreased the backlog and negatively impacted the book-to-bill ratio.
We continue to raise critical capacities, while remaining careful in adding operational fixed costs.
Pricing pressures have been minimal due to the strong business environment.
Gross profit margin increased versus the prior fiscal quarter and the third fiscal quarter of 2017.
The increases are primarily volume-driven.
The book-to-bill ratio in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 was impacted by the normalization of distributor backlog, particularly of semiconductor products in Asia, and decreased to 0.95 versus 1.17 in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
The book-to-bill ratios in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 for distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") were 0.80 and 1.15, respectively, versus ratios of 1.23 and 1.08, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
For the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, we anticipate revenues between $745 million and $785 million and gross margins of 28.0% to 29.5% at the exchange rates of the third fiscal quarter.
42 



Financial Metrics by Segment 



The following table shows net revenues, book-to-bill ratio, gross profit margin, and segment operating margin broken out by segment for the five fiscal quarters beginning with the third fiscal quarter of 2017 through the third fiscal quarter of 2018 (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASU 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 of the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
43 



U.S. Tax Reform: Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 



On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "TCJA") was enacted in the United States.
In response to the TCJA, the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 ("SAB No.
118") to provide guidance to registrants in applying ASC Topic 740 in connection with the TCJA.
SAB No.
118 provides that in the period of enactment, the income tax effects of the TCJA may be reported as a provisional amount based on a reasonable estimate (to the extent a reasonable estimate can be determined), which would be subject to adjustment during a "measurement period".
The measurement period begins in the reporting period of the TCJA's enactment and ends when a registrant has obtained, prepared, and analyzed the information that was needed in order to complete the accounting requirements under ASC Topic 740.
SAB No.
118 also describes supplemental disclosures that should accompany the provisional amounts.
As permitted by SAB No.
118, the net tax expense recorded in our financial statements for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 due to the enactment of the TCJA is considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates.
As further described below, the Company adjusted its estimates for the impact of enactment of the TCJA in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018.
We may record additional adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period, as additional analysis is completed.
The provisional amount of net tax expense recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017, as adjusted in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, that is directly and indirectly related to the TCJA is summarized as follows (amounts in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As a result of the TCJA, we recognized a provisional tax benefit of $76.0 million to remeasure our net deferred tax liabilities at the lower, 21% rate.
The TCJA imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings of 15.5% for liquid assets and 8% for illiquid assets, payable in defined increments over eight years.
As a result of this requirement, we recognized provisional tax expense of $215.6 million in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 and an additional $6.2 million based on additional analysis completed in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, and provisionally expect to pay $184.5 million, net of estimated applicable foreign tax credits, and after utilization of net operating loss, R&D credit, and foreign tax credit carryforwards.
We paid the first installment of $14.4 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
We repatriated approximately $274.0 million and $450.0 million to the United States, and paid withholding and foreign taxes of approximately $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively.
See further information in "Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources" below.
44 



After completing these phases of cash repatriation, there is approximately $300 million of unremitted foreign earnings that we have deemed not permanently reinvested and thus have accrued foreign withholding and other taxes.
We expect to repatriate these remaining amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.
Determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred foreign tax liability for these amounts is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation.
We repatriated $38.0 million and $46.0 million pursuant to this program in 2017 and 2016, respectively.
Prior to the enactment of the TCJA, the related deferred tax liability for the 2015 repatriation plan was $118.9 million.
We recorded expense of $0.7 million and benefit of $7.0 million for the third fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, respectively, for such remeasurements.
Because of the complexity of the new GILTI provisions, the rules around its implementation are not yet clear and as such, this estimate could change.
The TCJA also imposes a base erosion and anti-abuse minimum tax ("BEAT").
We expect to be subject to BEAT in 2018 and future periods, but BEAT did not have a material impact on our provision for income taxes for the fiscal quarter or nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018.
For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the interest deduction for the convertible debentures is computed based on the comparable yield of a hypothetical fixed rate debt instrument with similar terms and conditions but no conversion feature.
Accordingly, annual interest deductions are calculated at 8.0%, 8.375%, and 7.5% of the adjusted issue price.
The adjusted issue price, and consequently the interest deduction for income tax purposes, grows over the term of the debt due to the difference between the interest deduction using a comparable yield applied to the adjusted issue price, and the coupon rate of 2.25% on the principal amount.
Interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP is calculated at the comparable yield multiplied by the carrying amount of the liability component of convertible debentures, which is substantially lower than the adjusted issue price for tax purposes.
The difference between the tax and GAAP interest computations resulted in substantially greater interest deductions for tax purposes than GAAP interest expense.
The TCJA limits deduction for net interest expense, which makes the convertible debentures less attractive financial instruments.
We repurchased $220.0 million and $69.1 million of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
Our repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures reduced our expected full year 2018 tax rate.
While the remaining convertible debentures due 2040 and 2042 are currently convertible at the option of the holders, none of the convertible debentures are currently callable by us.
The effects of the various TCJA provisions are all interrelated and the impact of any specific item on our effective tax rate is difficult to isolate.
Acquisitions of passive components businesses would likely be made to strengthen and broaden our position as a specialty product supplier; acquisitions of discrete semiconductor businesses would be made to increase market share and to generate synergies.
For these purposes, we calculate pro forma EBITDA as the adjusted EBITDA of Vishay and the target for Vishay's four preceding fiscal quarters, with a pro forma adjustment for savings which management estimates would have been achieved had the target been acquired by Vishay at the beginning of the four fiscal quarter period.
On February 8, 2018, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of UltraSource, Inc. ("UltraSource"), a U.S.-based, privately-held thin film circuit and thin film interconnect manufacturer, for $13.6 million.
The results and operations of this acquisition have been included in the Resistors & Inductors segment since February 8, 2018.
UltraSource contributed $4.8 million and $12.3 million of net revenues to the third fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018.
On June 11, 2018, we acquired EuroPower Holdings Ltd. ("EuroPower"), a distributor of electronic components in the United Kingdom for $2.9 million.
The results and operations of this acquisition have been included in the Resistors & Inductors segment since June 11, 2018.
EuroPower did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results for the fiscal quarter or nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018.
46 



Cost Management 



We place a strong emphasis on controlling our costs, and use various measures and metrics to evaluate our cost structure.
We define variable costs as expenses that vary with respect to quantity produced.
Fixed costs do not vary with respect to quantity produced over the relevant time period.
Contributive margin is calculated as net revenue less variable costs.
It may be expressed in dollars or as a percentage of net revenue.
Management uses this measure to determine the amount of profit to be expected for any change in revenues.
While these measures are typical cost accounting measures, none of these measures are recognized in accordance with GAAP.
The classification of expenses as either variable or fixed is judgmental and other companies might classify such expenses differently.
These measures, as calculated by Vishay, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
We closely monitor variable costs and seek to achieve the contributive margin in our business model.
Over a period of many years, we have generally maintained a contributive margin of between 45% - 47% of revenues.
Historically, our primary cost reduction technique was through the transfer of production to the extent possible from high-labor-cost countries to lower-labor-cost countries.
In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2013, we announced various cost reduction programs as part of our continuous efforts to improve efficiency and operating performance.
The programs primarily focused on a plan to enhance the competitiveness of our MOSFETs segment and a voluntary separation / early retirement offer to certain employees Company-wide.
These programs, including the extension of the MOSFET Enhanced Competitiveness Program, were substantially completed as of December 31, 2017.
Programs were also initiated in 2015.
As of December 31, 2017, these programs were substantially implemented.
Even as we seek to manage our costs, we continue to pursue our growth plans through investing in capacities for strategic product lines, and through increasing our resources for R&D, technical marketing, and field application engineering; supplemented by opportunistic acquisitions of specialty businesses.
47 



Foreign Currency Translation 



We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly due to transactions in currencies other than the functional currencies of certain subsidiaries.
We occasionally use forward exchange contracts to economically hedge a portion of these exposures.
GAAP requires that we identify the "functional currency" of each of our subsidiaries and measure all elements of the financial statements in that functional currency.
A subsidiary's functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
In cases where a subsidiary is relatively self-contained within a particular country, the local currency is generally deemed to be the functional currency.
However, a foreign subsidiary that is a direct and integral component or extension of the parent company's operations generally would have the parent company's currency as its functional currency.
We have both situations among our subsidiaries.
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the Local Currency as the Functional Currency 



We finance our operations in Europe and certain locations in Asia in local currencies, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the local currency as their functional currency.
For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, assets and liabilities in the consolidated condensed balance sheets have been translated at the rate of exchange as of the balance sheet date.
Translation adjustments do not impact the results of operations and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity.
For those subsidiaries where the local currency is the functional currency, revenues and expenses incurred in the local currency are translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The dollar generally was weaker during the first nine fiscal months of 2018 compared to the prior year-to-date period, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars increasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior year-to-date period.
The dollar generally was stronger during the third fiscal quarter compared to the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter, with the translation of foreign currency revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars decreasing reported revenues and expenses versus the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter.
Foreign Subsidiaries which use the U.S. Dollar as the Functional Currency 



Our operations in Israel and most significant locations in Asia are largely financed in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, these subsidiaries utilize the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.
For those foreign subsidiaries where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, all foreign currency financial statement amounts are remeasured into U.S. dollars.
While these subsidiaries transact most business in U.S. dollars, they may have significant costs, particularly payroll-related, which are incurred in the local currency.
The cost of products sold for the third fiscal quarter of 2018 have been favorably impacted (compared to the prior year quarter and prior fiscal quarter) by local currency transactions of subsidiaries which use the U.S. dollar as their functional currency.
The cost of products sold for the first nine fiscal months of 2018 have been unfavorably impacted compared to the prior year-to-date period.
48 



Results of Operations 



Statements of operations' captions as a percentage of net revenues and the effective tax rates were as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statement included in Item 1.
Net Revenues 



Net revenues were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



**Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASU 2014-09.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We experienced a substantial, broad-based increase in demand for our products beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2017 that continued through the third fiscal quarter of 2018, which resulted in increased net revenues compared to the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods.
Gross Profit and Margins 



Gross profit margins for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 were 30.3%, versus 29.9% and 28.0%, for the comparable prior quarter and prior year period, respectively.
Gross profit margins for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 were 29.6%, versus 27.3% for the comparable prior year period.
The increases are due primarily to increased sales volume.
49 



Segments 



Analysis of revenues and gross profit margins for our segments is provided below.
MOSFETs 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the MOSFETs segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in MOSFETs segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



MOSFETs segment net revenues in the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year periods.
All regions and sales channels contributed to the significant increase versus the prior year quarter with the Americas and Europe regions experiencing above average growth.
The strong performance of our IC product business in the third fiscal quarter of 2017 results in comparatively lower growth with Asian distributors in the current year periods.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, the reduction in the pricing pressure from last year continued for our established MOSFETs products.
Price increases for select products and ongoing price reductions for other products resulted in a net increase of average selling prices versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter and a slight decline versus the prior year-to-date period.
We recently completed major cost reduction activities, which had been ongoing since 2013, to improve the operating results of the MOSFETs segment.
See Note 4 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
We continue to make capital and R&D investments in this business.
We will maintain our R&D and management presence in the Silicon Valley area, and in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 we moved into a new R&D facility in San Jose.
We are in the process of increasing manufacturing volume at third-party foundries and maximizing the output of our internal fab to meet the increased demand.
50 



Diodes 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the Diodes segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in Diodes segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Diodes segment achieved significant growth in net revenues in the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 versus the prior year periods and slight growth versus the prior fiscal quarter.
The increases versus the prior year periods were primarily due to volume growth, especially with distributors in all regions, and higher average selling prices.
The positive impacts from a stronger euro also contributed to the growth versus the prior year-to-date period.
The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter was primarily due to volume growth, especially in the Asia and Americas regions, and higher average selling prices, partially offset by negative impacts from a weaker euro.
The positive business climate mostly eliminated the pricing pressure for our established Diodes products.
The net increases in average selling prices are primarily due to a more favorable customer mix.
51 



Optoelectronic Components 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the Optoelectronic Components segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in Optoelectronic Components segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Optoelectronic Components segment experienced a slight increase in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, a slight decrease versus the prior year quarter, and a moderate increase versus the prior year-to-date period.
The increase versus the prior fiscal quarter is primarily due to increased volume, particularly in the Asia region, partially offset by lower average selling prices and a weaker euro.
The decrease versus the prior year quarter is primarily due to lower average selling prices.
The increases were partially offset by lower average selling prices and cost inflation.
The pricing pressure for our established Optoelectronic Components products has reduced versus prior years, but continues.
Average selling prices decreased slightly versus the prior quarter and the prior year-to-date period.
52 



Resistors & Inductors 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the Resistors & Inductors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in Resistors & Inductors segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenues of the Resistors & Inductors segment increased significantly versus the prior year periods and slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter.
All regions contributed to the increase in net revenues versus the prior year periods.
The Americas and Asia regions contributed to the increase in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, while the Europe region decreased slightly primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency effects and seasonality.
Distribution and the automotive and industrial end markets contributed the most to the revenue increase.
The acquisition of UltraSource in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 also contributed to the increase, particularly versus the prior year periods.
See further information in "Acquisition Activity" above and Note 3 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
The gross profit margin improved versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year periods.
Higher average selling prices contributed to the increases versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter and prior year quarter and decreased slightly versus the prior year-to-date period.
Capital spending projects to expand capacity are underway to meet the increased demand.
53 



Capacitors 



Net revenues and gross profit margin of the Capacitors segment were as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
The change in net revenues versus the comparable prior periods was as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Changes in Capacitors segment net revenues were attributable to the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenues of the Capacitors segment for the fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased significantly versus the prior year periods and moderately versus the prior fiscal quarter.
All regions contributed to the growth in net revenues versus the prior year periods.
The Asia and Americas regions contributed to the growth in net revenues versus the prior fiscal quarter, with the Americas region experiencing the most significant growth.
Net revenues in the Europe region decreased slightly versus the prior fiscal quarter primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency effects.
Distribution and the industrial and automotive end markets were the main contributors to the sales growth.
The gross profit margin increased versus the prior quarter and the prior year periods.
Due to the continuing positive business climate in the third fiscal quarter of 2018, average selling prices increased slightly versus the prior quarter and prior year periods.
54 



Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 



Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
SG&A expenses were favorably impacted by foreign currency exchange rates and less legal expenses in the third fiscal quarter of 2018.
The overall increase in SG&A expenses versus the prior year periods is primarily attributable to general salary and cost inflation, incentive compensation, and exchange rate impacts, partially offset by the benefits of our restructuring programs (see "Cost Management" above).
Certain items included in SG&A expenses impact the comparability of these amounts, as summarized below (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Certain intangible assets became fully amortized in the second fiscal quarter of 2017 and in the third fiscal quarter of 2018.
55 



Other Income (Expense) 



Interest expense for the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018 increased $2.4 million and $3.9 million versus the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
Interest expense for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 increased by $6.1 million versus the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017.
The increases are primarily attributable to the issuance of convertible senior notes due 2025 in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
The increases are partially offset by reduced interest expense on the revolving credit facility as a result of using cash repatriated in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance.
In June 2018, we issued $600 million principal amount of 2.25% senior convertible notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors.
We used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, for $585.0 million.
We recognized a $17.3 million loss on early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible debentures in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
Based on our current debt structure, including our expected usage of the revolving credit facility, we expect future interest expense to be approximately $10.4 million per quarter, of which $5.5 million will be payable in cash and the remainder will represent non-cash accretion and amortization of issuance costs.
The following tables analyze the components of the line "Other" on the consolidated condensed statements of operations (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



†Recognized in "Other" subsequent to the prospective adoption of ASU 2016-01.
Previously recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income until realized.
See Note 1 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1.
56 



Income Taxes 



For the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 38.4%, as compared to (5.8)% and 25.1% for the fiscal quarters ended June 30, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
For the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, our effective tax rate was 22.9%, as compared to 25.6% for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017.
As permitted by SAB No.
118, the net tax expense recorded in our financial statements for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 due to the enactment of the TCJA is considered "provisional," based on reasonable estimates.
The net tax expense recorded in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017 was $234.9 million.
We are continuing to collect and analyze detailed information that could impact this amount, and recorded adjustments of $12.0 million and $13.5 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively, and may record additional adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period defined in SAB No.
118, as additional analysis is completed.
The effective tax rate for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 was also significantly impacted by the effect of the repurchase of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042 in the second fiscal quarter.
See Note 6 to our consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1 for further information.
During the third fiscal quarter and nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, we recorded tax expense of $0.7 million and tax benefit of $7.0 million, respectively, due to the remeasurement of the deferred tax liability related to our cash repatriation program.
These types of remeasurement adjustments will continue until the amounts are repatriated.
We repatriated $274 million and $450 million to the U.S. pursuant to this program in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively.
As a result of these repatriations, we paid cash taxes of $92.1 million and $64.7 million in the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, respectively.
Accordingly, our effective tax rate has historically been less than the U.S. statutory rate, except in years where there are material discrete items.
The negative impact of limitations on the deductibility of interest expense was partially mitigated by the partial repurchase of convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
During the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $3.5 million on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period and interest, offset by payments and foreign currency effects.
57 



Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources 



We focus on our ability to generate cash flows from operations.
The cash generated from operations is used to fund our capital expenditure plans, and cash in excess of our capital expenditure needs is available to fund our acquisition strategy, to reduce debt levels, and to pay dividends and repurchase stock.
We have generated cash flows from operations in excess of $200 million in each of the past 16 years, and cash flows from operations in excess of $100 million in each of the past 23 years.
Management uses a non-GAAP measure, "free cash," to evaluate our ability to fund acquisitions, repay debt, and otherwise enhance stockholder value through stock repurchases or dividends.
See "Overview" above for "free cash" definition and reconciliation to GAAP.
Vishay has generated positive "free cash" in each of the past 21 years, and "free cash" in excess of $80 million in each of the past 16 years.
In this volatile economic environment, we continue to focus on the generation of free cash, including an emphasis on cost controls.
During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, we repatriated approximately $274 million and approximately $450 million, respectively, to the United States, and paid cash taxes of $92.1 and $64.7 million, respectively, related to the repatriations.
The payment of these cash taxes was recorded as an operating cash flow and any future cash taxes associated with the TCJA transition tax and related foreign taxes on repatriated cash will generally be recorded as operating cash flows.
The payment of these cash taxes significantly impacted cash flows from operations and free cash for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018.
We maintain a revolving credit facility, first entered into in 2010, which was amended and restated on August 8, 2013, and further amended and restated on December 10, 2015.
The credit facility provides an aggregate commitment of $640 million of revolving loans available until December 10, 2020, and we have the ability to request up to $50 million of incremental revolving commitments, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.
At December 31, 2017, $150 million was outstanding under our credit facility.
We utilized most of the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the second fiscal quarter of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
We utilized a portion of the cash repatriated to the U.S. in the third fiscal quarter of 2018 to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero.
The credit facility allows an unlimited amount of defined "Restricted Payments," which include cash dividends to stockholders and share repurchases, provided our pro forma leverage ratio is less than 2.25 to 1.
If our leverage ratio is greater than 2.25 to 1, the credit facility allows such payments up to $75 million per annum (subject to a cap of $225 million for the term of the facility).
The credit facility provides us with significantly more flexibility to execute these transactions, and our ability to utilize some of our foreign-source income for these types of transactions provides even further financial flexibility.
Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus an interest margin.
The applicable interest margin is based on our leverage ratio.
Based on our leverage ratio for the third fiscal quarter of 2018, borrowings bore interest at LIBOR plus 1.75%.
The interest rate on our borrowings decreases to LIBOR plus 1.50% if our leverage ratio is less than 1.50 to 1 and increases to LIBOR plus 2.00% if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1.
Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the third fiscal quarter of 2018, any new borrowings will bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%.
The undrawn commitment fee, based on our leverage ratio for the third fiscal quarter of 2018, was 0.35% per annum.
Such undrawn commitment fee decreases to 0.30% per annum if our leverage ratio is less than 1.50 to 1 and increases to 0.40% per annum if our leverage ratio equals or exceeds 2.50 to 1.
Based on our leverage ratio as of the end of the third fiscal quarter of 2018, our undrawn commitment fee will be 0.30% per annum.
Certain of our subsidiaries are permitted to borrow under the credit facility, subject to the satisfaction of specified conditions.
Any borrowings by these subsidiaries under the credit facility will be guaranteed by Vishay and certain subsidiaries.
The financial maintenance covenants include (a) an interest expense coverage ratio of not less than 2.00 to 1; and (b) a leverage ratio of not more than 3.25 to 1 (and a pro forma ratio of 2.75 to 1 on the date of incurrence of additional debt).
The computation of these ratios is prescribed in Article VI of the Credit Agreement between Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., which has been filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K filed December 10, 2015.
58 



We were in compliance with all financial covenants under the credit facility at September 29, 2018.
Our interest expense coverage ratio and leverage ratio were 16.68 to 1 and 1.48 to 1, respectively.
We expect to continue to be in compliance with these covenants based on current projections.
If we are not in compliance with all of the required financial covenants, the credit facility could be terminated by the lenders, and any amounts then outstanding pursuant to the credit facility could become immediately payable.
Additionally, our convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042 and our convertible notes due 2025 have cross-default provisions that could accelerate repayment in the event the indebtedness under the credit facility is accelerated.
The balance of our revolving credit facility was $150 million at December 31, 2017.
We borrowed $317 million and repaid $467 million on our credit facility during the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018.
The average outstanding balance on our credit facility calculated at fiscal month-ends was $165.9 million and the highest amount outstanding on our credit facility at a month end was $314 million during the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018.
In June 2018, we issued $600 million principal amount of 2.25% senior convertible notes due 2025 to qualified institutional investors.
We used the net proceeds from this offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and 2042, respectively, for $585.0 million.
Prior to six months before the maturity date, our convertible notes are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances.
The convertible notes are not convertible as of September 29, 2018 and will not be contingently convertible before the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018.
Prior to three months before the maturity date, our convertible senior debentures are convertible by the holders under certain circumstances.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the September 29, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the September 29, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of our common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
Such debentures will remain convertible until December 31, 2018, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated.
At the direction of our Board of Directors, we intend, upon conversion, to repay the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of our common stock.
We intend to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under our credit facility.
Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a noncurrent liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
No conversions have occurred to date.
The convertible debentures due 2041 are not currently convertible.
The TCJA imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings of 15.5% for liquid assets and 8% for illiquid assets, payable in defined increments over eight years.
As a result of this requirement, we provisionally expect to pay $184.5 million, net of estimated applicable foreign tax credits, and after utilization of net operating loss and R&D and FTC Credit carryforwards.
During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2018, we repatriated approximately $274 million and approximately $450 million, respectively, to the United States, and paid cash taxes of $92.1 and $64.7 million, respectively, related to the repatriations.
We used some of these repatriated amounts to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility to zero and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
We expect to repatriate these remaining amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.
As of September 29, 2018, following these repatriation transactions and the uses of such cash described above, approximately 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by the United States parent company.
We are continuing to evaluate the future utilization of the remaining repatriated cash.
The U.S. parent company, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., must fund cash dividends to stockholders (which were increased 26% in the second fiscal quarter of 2018), any stock repurchases, principal and interest payments on our debt instruments, and the TCJA transition tax.
Our U.S. subsidiaries have other operating cash needs.
Such authorization also includes the open market repurchase of an equivalent number of shares issued upon the exercise of the conversion rights by any holder of convertible debentures.
Such authorization does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of convertible debt instruments, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at our discretion, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
We expect to fund any repurchases through cash on hand (including repatriated cash), and if necessary, borrowings under our revolving credit facility.
59 



Although we do not currently have any amounts outstanding on the revolving credit facility, management expects to use the credit facility from time-to-time to meet certain short-term financing needs.
We expect that cash on-hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our longer-term financing needs related to normal operating requirements, regular dividend payments, and our research and development and capital expenditure plans.
Additional acquisition activity, share repurchases, convertible debt repurchases, or conversion of our convertible debentures may require additional borrowing under our credit facility or may otherwise require us to incur additional debt.
No principal payments on our debt are due before the maturity of our revolving credit facility in December 2020.
As these investments were funded using a portion of excess cash and represent a significant aspect of our cash management strategy, we include the investments in the calculation of net cash and short-term investments (debt).
The interest rates on our short-term investments vary by location, but can be up to 150 bps higher than the interest rates on our cash accounts.
The average interest rate on our short-term investments was 1.5% due to the low interest rate environment in Europe.
Transactions related to these investments are classified as investing activities on our consolidated condensed statements of cash flows.
The following table summarizes the components of net cash and short-term investments (debt) at September 29, 2018 and December 31, 2017 (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Represents the carrying amount of the convertible instruments, which is comprised of the principal amount of the instruments, net of the unamortized discount and the associated embedded derivative liability, when applicable.
"Net cash and short-term investments (debt)" does not have a uniform definition and is not recognized in accordance with GAAP.
This measure should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance or liquidity.
However, management believes that an analysis of "net cash and short-term investments (debt)" assists investors in understanding aspects of our cash and debt management.
The measure, as calculated by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
Our financial condition as of September 29, 2018 continued to be strong, with a current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of 3.7 to 1, as compared to 3.9 as of December 31, 2017.
The decrease is primarily due to the decrease in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments.
Our ratio of total debt to Vishay stockholders' equity was 0.40 to 1 at September 29, 2018, as compared to 0.26 to 1 at December 31, 2017.
The increase in the ratio is primarily due to increases in long-term debt after the issuance of the convertible notes due 2025.
Cash flows provided by operating activities were $108.9 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018, as compared to cash flows provided by operations of $245.8 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017.
The decrease in operating cash flows reflects the $156.7 million payment of cash taxes associated with repatriation activity and the first installment of the TCJA transition tax of $14.4 million.
Cash paid for property and equipment for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 was $126.4 million, as compared to $84.8 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 30, 2017.
We expect capital spending of approximately $220 million in 2018.
Some of this 2018 capital spending represents an acceleration of expected expansion from later years of our long-range plan.
Cash paid for dividends to our common and Class B common stockholders totalled $34.3 million and $27.3 million for the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018 and September 30, 2017, respectively.
On May 7, 2018, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to $0.085 per share, representing a 26% increase over the previous quarterly dividend.
We expect dividend payments in 2018 to total approximately $46.5 million.
However, any future dividend declaration and payment remains subject to authorization by our Board of Directors.
On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock.
The stock repurchase plan expired on June 1, 2018.
60 



Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 



Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed on February 16, 2018, includes a table of contractual commitments.
Except as described below, there were no material changes to these commitments during the nine fiscal months ended September 29, 2018.
The following tables represent our long-term debt obligations, expected cash requirements for interest, and expected cash requirements for payment of the TCJA transition tax as of September 29, 2018 and December 31, 2017, reflecting the issuance of $600 million principal amount of 2.25% senior convertible notes due 2025, the use of the net proceeds from the offering to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, the use of cash repatriated to the U.S. to reduce the outstanding balance of the revolving credit facility, and the $14.0 million first installment payment of the TCJA transition tax in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
Contractual Obligations as of September 29, 2018 (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2017 (in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



We do not participate in nor have we created any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing, other than the operating leases described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Dividends 



In 2014, our Board of Directors approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program.
Cash dividends of $0.0625 per share of common stock and Class B common stock were paid in the first three fiscal quarters of 2017.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.0675 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
The quarterly cash dividend was increased to $0.085 per share of common stock and Class B common stock in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, although each dividend is subject to approval by our Board of Directors.
We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Readers can find them in Part I, Item 1A, of that filing under the heading "Risk Factors."
You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds     



Not applicable.
