Item 1.
Financial Statements 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets 



(In thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Continues on following page.
4 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets (continued) 



(In thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
5 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations 



(Unaudited - In thousands, except per share amounts) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
6 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income 



(Unaudited - In thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
7 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 



(Unaudited - In thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
8 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Statements of Equity 



(Unaudited - In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
The four fiscal quarters in 2019 end on March 30, 2019, June 29, 2019, September 28, 2019, and December 31, 2019, respectively.
The four fiscal quarters in 2018 ended on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively.
Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance 



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
The guidance in ASU No.
2016-02 and all related ASUs is codified in Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) Topic 842, Leases.
The Company adopted ASC Topic 842 effective January 1, 2019.
Upon adoption at January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use assets of $91,462 and lease liabilities of $95,784 on the consolidated balance sheet.
The difference between the initial right of use asset and lease liability balances recognized upon adoption of ASC Topic 842 is primarily due to accrued lease incentive balances at December 31, 2018.
On December 20, 2018, the Company received sale proceeds of $45,500 and concurrently leased-back its former manufacturing site in Santa Clara, California, under a short-term arrangement, to raze the buildings.
Upon adoption of ASC Topic 842, the Company was required to reassess the accounting for these transactions.
The transactions did not qualify as a completed sale and leaseback under previous GAAP.
However, pursuant to ASC Topic 842’s sale and leaseback guidance, the transaction would qualify as a completed sale.
See Note 3.
Recently Issued Accounting Guidance 



In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
The ASU replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
The ASU is effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020, with the ability to early adopt for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its financial assets measured at amortized cost.
Reclassifications 



Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current financial statement presentation.
11 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 3 – Leases 



The Company leases buildings and machinery and equipment used for manufacturing and/or sales and administrative purposes.
Substantially all of the Company’s leases are structured and classified as operating leases.
As of January 1, 2019, the Company accounts for its leases in accordance with ASC Topic 842.
The Company leases assets in each region in which it operates.
The Company’s leases are generally denominated in the currency of the leased assets' location, which may not be the functional currency of the subsidiary lessee.
Accordingly, the Company remeasures its lease liability and recognizes a transactional gain/loss for leases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary lessee.
The Company recognizes right of use assets and lease liabilities for leases greater than twelve months in duration based on the contract consideration for lease components through the term of the lease and the applicable discount rate.
Leases with a duration less than or equal to twelve months are considered short-term leases.
Variable lease payments based on an index or rate are included in the right of use assets and lease liabilities based on the effective rates at lease commencement.
Variable lease payments not based on an index or rate are not included in the initial right of use asset and lease liability and are recognized when incurred as a component of lease expense in the statement of operations.
The Company has elected to not separate contract consideration for lease and non-lease components for its building leases.
In addition to the noncancellable period of a lease, the Company includes periods covered by extension options it is reasonably certain to exercise, termination options that it is reasonably certain not to exercise, and extension and termination options controlled by the lessor in its determination of the lease term.
The Company uses the rate implicit in the contract whenever possible when determining the applicable discount rate.
When the implicit rate is not used, the Company employs a portfolio approach based on the duration of the lease.
The portfolio lease rates are calculated monthly.
No individual lease is considered significant and there are no leases that have not yet commenced that are considered significant.
Total lease cost recognized on the consolidated condensed statement of operations is as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company paid $5,050 for its operating leases in the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2019, which are included in operating cash flows on the consolidated condensed statement of cash flows.
The weighted-average remaining lease term for the Company's operating leases is 9.3 years and the weighted-average discount rate is 6.1% as of March 30, 2019.
The undiscounted future lease payments for the Company's operating lease liabilities are as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The undiscounted future lease payments presented in the table above include payments through the term of the lease, which may include periods beyond the noncancellable term.
The difference between the total payments above and the lease liability balance is due to the discount rate used to calculate lease liabilities.
The Company elected to use the package of practical expedients available in ASC Topic 842; and accordingly, did not reassess existing contracts for leases, the classification of existing leases, or initial direct costs for any existing leases.
The Company also elected to use the practical expedient available in ASC Topic 842 for land easements.
The Company did not elect the practical expedient available in ASC Topic 842 to use hindsight in determining the lease term.
Accordingly, the remaining lease term as of January 1, 2019 was used to calculate the initial right of use asset and lease liability.
On January 3, 2019, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of Bi-Metallix, Inc. ("Bi-Metallix"), a U.S.-based, privately-held provider of electron beam continuous strip welding services for $11,862.
The Company was a major customer of Bi-Metallix, and the acquired business is being vertically integrated into the Company's Resistors & Inductors segment.
Based on an estimate of their fair values, the Company allocated $2,900 of the purchase price to definite-lived intangible assets.
After allocating the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on an estimation of their fair values at the date of acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill of $3,324 related to this acquisition.
The results and operations of this acquisition have been included in the Resistors & Inductors segment since January 3, 2019.
The goodwill related to this acquisition is included in the Resistors & Inductors reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing.
The remaining fluctuation in the goodwill account balance is due to foreign currency translation.
The Company’s repurchase of a portion of the outstanding convertible debentures in the first fiscal quarter of 2019 (see Note 6) slightly reduced the Company’s expected 2019 tax rate.
15 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 6 – Long-Term Debt 



Long-term debt consists of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Convertible Debt Instruments 



The following table summarizes some key facts and terms regarding the outstanding convertible debt instruments as of March 30, 2019: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The terms of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 are generally congruent.
The terms of the fully retired convertible senior debentures due 2042 were also generally congruent to the convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041.
Prior to three months before the maturity date, the holders may convert their convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter after the first full quarter subsequent to issuance, if the sale price of Vishay common stock reaches 130% of the conversion price for a specified period; (2) the trading price of the debentures falls below 98% of the product of the sale price of Vishay's common stock and the conversion rate for a specified period; (3) Vishay calls any or all of the debentures for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the third scheduled trading day immediately preceding the redemption date; or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.
Prior to December 15, 2024, the holders of the convertible senior notes due 2025 may convert their notes only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter after the fiscal quarter ending September 29, 2018, if the sale price of Vishay common stock reaches 130% of the conversion price for a specified period (initially $40.94); (2) the trading price of the notes falls below 98% of the product of the sale price of Vishay's common stock and the conversion rate for a specified period; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions.
The convertible senior debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 30, 2019 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The convertible senior debentures due 2040 will remain convertible until June 29, 2019, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible debt instruments, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible debt instruments in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements.
The Company intends to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under its credit facility.
Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible senior debentures due 2040 continues to be classified as a non-current liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
16 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for the convertible debt instruments effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend.
The conversion rate and effective conversion price for the convertible senior notes due 2025 is adjusted for quarterly cash dividends to the extent such dividends exceed $0.085 per share of common stock.
GAAP requires an issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods.
The resulting discount on the debt is amortized as non-cash interest expense in future periods.
The carrying values of the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments are reflected in the Company’s consolidated condensed balance sheets as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest is payable on the convertible debt instruments semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company’s estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance.
The convertible senior notes due 2025 do not possess contingent interest features.
Interest expense related to the convertible debt instruments is reflected on the consolidated condensed statements of operations for the fiscal quarters ended: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company used cash to repurchase $960, $12,288 and $2,168 principal amounts of convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, respectively, in the first fiscal quarter of 2019.
The net carrying value of the debentures repurchased were $396, $4,770, and $924, respectively.
In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for convertible debentures, the aggregate repurchase payment of $22,695 was allocated between the liability ($7,311) and equity (including temporary equity, $15,384) components of the convertible debentures, using the Company's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of the repurchase.
As a result, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of convertible debentures of $1,307, including the write-off of a portion of unamortized debt issuance costs.
The convertible senior debentures due 2042 have been fully repurchased, and the trustee has confirmed that the Company has satisfied and discharged its obligations under the indenture governing the convertible senior debentures due 2042.
See Note 8 for further information.
18 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 8 – Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits 



The Company maintains various retirement benefit plans.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans 



The following table shows the components of the net periodic pension cost for the first fiscal quarters of 2019 and 2018 for the Company’s defined benefit pension plans: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Other Postretirement Benefits 



The following table shows the components of the net periodic benefit cost for the first fiscal quarters of 2019 and 2018 for the Company’s other postretirement benefit plans: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



19 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 9 – Stock-Based Compensation 



The Company has various stockholder-approved programs which allow for the grant of stock-based compensation to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company.
The amount of compensation cost related to stock-based payment transactions is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued.
The Company determines compensation cost for restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and phantom stock units based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying common stock adjusted for expected dividends paid over the required vesting period for non-participating awards.
Compensation cost is recognized over the period that an officer, employee, or non-employee director provides service in exchange for the award.
The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense recognized: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company recognizes compensation cost for RSUs that are expected to vest and records cumulative adjustments in the period that the expectation changes.
The following table summarizes unrecognized compensation cost and the weighted average remaining amortization periods at March 30, 2019 (amortization periods in years): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company currently expects all performance-based RSUs to vest and all of the associated unrecognized compensation cost for performance-based RSUs presented in the table above to be recognized.
The number of performance-based RSUs that are scheduled to vest increases ratably based on the achievement of defined performance criteria between the established target and maximum levels.
RSUs with performance-based vesting criteria are expected to vest as follows (number of RSUs in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Phantom Stock Units 



The 2007 Program authorizes the grant of phantom stock units to the extent provided for in the Company’s employment agreements with certain executives.
Each phantom stock unit entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock at the individual’s termination of employment or any other future date specified in the applicable employment agreement.
Dividend equivalents are issued in the form of additional units of phantom stock.
The phantom stock units are fully vested at all times.
Vishay operates, and its chief operating decision maker makes strategic and operating decisions with regards to assessing performance and allocating resources based on, five reporting segments: MOSFETs, Diodes, Optoelectronic Components, Resistors & Inductors, and Capacitors.
A small portion of revenues is from royalties.
The Company evaluates business segment performance on operating income, exclusive of certain items (“segment operating income”).
Business segment assets are the owned or allocated assets used by each business.
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit.
The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 30, 2019 evaluation.
In periods that the debentures are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the remaining debentures have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of any of the convertible debt instruments in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
Accordingly, the convertible instruments are included in the diluted earnings per share computation using the “treasury stock method” (similar to options and warrants) rather than the “if converted method” otherwise required for convertible debt.
Under the “treasury stock method,” Vishay calculates the number of shares issuable under the terms of the debentures based on the average market price of Vishay common stock during the period, and that number is included in the total diluted shares figure for the period.
If the average market price is less than $12.71, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2040, if the average market price is less than $17.41, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2041, and if the average market price is less than $31.49, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior notes due 2025.
26 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 12 – Fair Value Measurements 



The fair value measurement accounting guidance establishes a valuation hierarchy of the inputs used to measure fair value.
This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
These include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs that reflect the Company’s own assumptions.
An asset or liability’s classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
There have been no changes in the classification of any financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy in the periods presented.
The following table provides the financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value measured on a recurring basis: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



As described in Note 6, the Company allocated the aggregate repurchase payment of convertible senior debentures between the associated liability and equity components of the repurchased convertible senior debentures based on a nonrecurring fair value measurement of the convertible senior debentures due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042 immediately prior to the repurchase.
The nonrecurring fair value measurement is considered a Level 3 measurement.
See Note 6 for further information on the measurement and input.
The Company maintains non-qualified trusts, referred to as “rabbi” trusts, to fund payments under deferred compensation and non-qualified pension plans.
Rabbi trust assets consist primarily of marketable securities, classified as available-for-sale and company-owned life insurance assets.
The marketable securities held in the rabbi trusts are valued using quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The company-owned life insurance assets are valued in consultation with the Company’s insurance brokers using the value of underlying assets of the insurance contracts.
The fair value measurement of the marketable securities held in the rabbi trust is considered a Level 1 measurement and the measurement of the company-owned life insurance assets is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The investments are valued based on quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The fair value measurement of the investments is considered a Level 1 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2041 contain embedded derivative features that GAAP requires to be bifurcated and remeasured each reporting period.
Each quarter, the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative features, if any, is recorded in the consolidated condensed statements of operations.
The Company uses a derivative valuation model to derive the value of the embedded derivative features.
The first three aforementioned inputs are based on observable market data and are considered Level 2 inputs while the last two aforementioned inputs are unobservable and thus require management’s judgment and are considered Level 3 inputs.
The fair value measurement is considered a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The fair value of the long-term debt, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, at March 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 is approximately $586,200 and $577,200, respectively, compared to its carrying value, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, of $506,834 and $509,407, respectively.
The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs.
At March 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company’s short-term investments were comprised of time deposits with financial institutions that have maturities that exceed 90 days from the date of acquisition; however they all mature within one year from the respective balance sheet dates.
The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value.
The investments are funded with excess cash not expected to be needed for operations prior to maturity; therefore, the Company believes it has the intent and ability to hold the short-term investments until maturity.
There have been no transfers to or from the held-to-maturity classification.
All decreases in the account balance are due to returns of principal at the securities’ maturity dates.
The Company estimates the fair value of its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments using level 2 inputs.
Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
The Company’s financial instruments also include accounts receivable, short-term notes payable, and accounts payable.
The carrying amounts for these financial instruments reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets approximate their fair values.
28 



 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings      



Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 15, 2019 describes certain of our legal proceedings.
Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed.
As previously reported, the Korean Ministry of Justice conducted a review of the conduct of Vishay Polytech Co., Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (“VPC”), at the request of the Korean Fair Trade Commission.
At the conclusion of that review, the Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office issued a summary indictment of VPC, along with other respondents, for alleged violations of applicable antitrust laws.
On March 4, 2019, the Seoul Central District Court issued a summary order finding that VPC had violated South Korea’s Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law and imposed a penalty of approximately $44,000 against VPC.
VPC waived its opportunity for a trial.
The conduct attributable to VPC occurred prior to the acquisition of that entity from Holy Stone Enterprises Co. Ltd. (“Holy Stone”) in 2014.
Item 1A.
