Item 1.
Financial Statements 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets 



(Unaudited - In thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Continues on following page.
4 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets (continued) 



(Unaudited - In thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
5 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Statements of Operations 



(Unaudited - In thousands, except per share amounts) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
6 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income 



(Unaudited - In thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
7 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 



(Unaudited - In thousands) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
8 



VISHAY INTERTECHNOLOGY, INC. 



Consolidated Condensed Statement of Equity 



(Unaudited - In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes.
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
The four fiscal quarters in 2018 end on March 31, 2018, June 30, 2018, September 29, 2018, and December 31, 2018, respectively.
The four fiscal quarters in 2017 ended on April 1, 2017, July 1, 2017, September 30, 2017, and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance 



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
See Note 2 and "Changes in Accounting Policies" below.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-01, Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
The ASU enhances the reporting model for financial instruments by addressing certain aspects, including requiring equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; simplifying the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values; eliminating the requirement to disclose the method and significant assumptions used to estimate the disclosed fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost; and requiring the use of the exit price notion for fair value measurements of financial instruments for disclosure purposes.
The Company adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018.
The Company recognized a cumulative-effect adjustment to January 1, 2018 retained earnings (accumulated deficit) of $1,801 for the cumulative change in fair value of available-for-sale equity investments previously recognized in other comprehensive income.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-07, Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost.
The ASU amends the income statement presentation requirements of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU on January 1, 2018.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
See "Changes in Accounting Policies" below.
Recently Issued Accounting Guidance 



In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases (Topic 842).
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
The ASU is effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with the ability to early adopt.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
The ASU replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates.
The ASU is effective for the Company for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2020, with the ability to early adopt for interim and annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its financial assets measured at amortized cost.
10 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Changes in Accounting Policies 



Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.
Revenue Recognition 



The Company adopted ASU 2014-09 as of January 1, 2018 using the full retrospective method.
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition.
Service-type warranty performance obligations 



ASU 2014-09 introduces the concept of service-type warranties, which represent separate performance obligations.
Upon adoption of ASU No.
2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period.
See further discussion of the warranty obligations in Note 2.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company analyzes its contractual arrangements to determine whether the promise in the contract to construct and transfer goods to the customer is a performance obligation that will be satisfied over time or at a point in time.
When the Company's performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, the Company transfers control of a good or service over time and, therefore, satisfies a performance obligation and recognizes revenue over time.
The Company has a limited number of contracts for custom products that meet the criteria to recognize revenue over time.
The dollar amount of these custom products did not materially change during the retrospective adoption period.
ASU 2014-09 provides several transition practical expedients.
The Company has not restated completed contracts that begin and end in the same annual reporting period; used the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods; has not disclosed the amount of the transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the Company expects to recognize the amount as revenue for the reporting periods presented prior to January 1, 2016; and has not retrospectively restated the contract for modifications made prior to January 1, 2016 and instead reflected the aggregate effect of all modifications when identifying the satisfied and unsatisfied performance obligations, determining the transaction price and allocating the transaction price pursuant to the transition practical expedients available.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits 



The Company retrospectively adopted ASU 2017-07 as of January 1, 2018.
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for pension and other postretirement benefits costs as detailed below.
ASU 2017-07 amends the income statement presentation requirements of net periodic benefit cost of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.
The Company also reclassified the $79,321 U.S. pension settlement charges recorded for the year ended December 31, 2016 to other expenses.
See the impact of this change in the tables below.
See the combined impact of the retrospective adoption in the tables below: 



   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Reclassifications 



In addition to the changes due to the retrospective adoption of certain aspects of new accounting guidance described above, certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current financial statement presentation.
12 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 2 – Revenue Recognition 



As of January 1, 2018, the Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers in accordance with ASU 2014-09.
The Company has framework agreements with many of its customers that contain the terms and conditions of future sales, but do not create enforceable rights or obligations.
Per ASU 2014-09, the Company's contracts are the combined purchase orders and the terms and conditions contained within such framework agreements.
Payment terms for the Company's sales are generally less than sixty days.
Substantially all of the Company's receivables are collected within twelve months of the transfer of products to the customer and the Company expects this to continue going forward.
The Company applies the practical expedient within ASU 2014-09 to all of its contracts with payment terms less than or equal to twelve months and does not recognize a financing component of the transaction price.
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in contracts with customers, and excludes any sales incentives and amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies its performance obligations.
The Company's contracts contain two performance obligations: delivery of products and warranty protection.
The Company does not sell separate, enhanced, or extended warranty coverage, but through its customary business practices, the Company has created implied service-type warranties, which are accounted for as separate performance obligations.
The allocation of revenue to warranty protection is based on an estimate of expected cost plus margin.
Warranty revenue is deferred and the warranty protection performance obligation is satisfied and revenue is recognized over the warranty period, which is typically less than twenty-four months from sale to end customer.
The Company has a broad line of products that it sells to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"), electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies, which manufacture for OEMs on an outsourcing basis, and independent distributors that maintain large inventories of electronic components for resale to OEMs and EMS companies.
The Company has agreements with distributors that allow distributors a limited credit for unsaleable products, which it terms a "scrap allowance."
Consistent with industry practice, the Company also has a "stock, ship and debit" program whereby it considers requests by distributors for credits on previously purchased products that remain in distributors' inventory, to enable the distributors to offer more competitive pricing.
In addition, the Company has contractual arrangements whereby it provides distributors with protection against price reductions initiated by the Company after product is sold by the Company to the distributor and prior to resale by the distributor.
These procedures require the exercise of significant judgments.
The Company believes that it has a reasonable basis to estimate future credits under the programs.
The Company applies the practical expedient available within ASU 2014-09 to all commissions paid as the future amortization period of the asset that the Company otherwise would have recognized is one year or less.
Accordingly, these commissions are expensed as incurred.
Internal staff are not paid commissions.
The Company has elected to account for shipping and handling as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the product even if the shipping and handling activities are performed after the customer obtains control.
The Company does not evaluate whether shipping and handling activities are promised services to its customers.
The Company applies this accounting policy election consistently to similar types of transactions.
See disaggregated revenue information in Note 10.
On February 8, 2018, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of UltraSource, Inc., a U.S.-based, privately-held thin film circuit and thin film interconnect manufacturer, for $13,372, subject to customary post-closing adjustments.
Based on an estimate of their fair values, the Company allocated $6,500 of the purchase price to definite-lived intangible assets.
After allocating the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on an estimation of their fair values at the date of acquisition, the Company recorded goodwill of $4,003 related to this acquisition.
The results and operations of this acquisition have been included in the Resistors & Inductors segment since February 8, 2018.
The goodwill related to this acquisition is included in the Resistors & Inductors reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing.
The preliminary allocation is pending finalization of a working capital adjustment.
There can be no assurance that the estimated amounts recorded represent the final purchase allocation.
The remaining fluctuation in the goodwill account balance is due to foreign currency translation.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company's restructuring programs were substantially completed.
This transfer of production was substantially completed by the end of the first fiscal quarter of 2016.
As a result of a review of the financial results and outlook for the Company's MOSFETs segment following the completion of production transfers, the Company determined to implement further cost reductions for the MOSFETs segment.
In November 2016, the Company announced an extension of the MOSFETs Enhanced Competitiveness Program.
The revised program included various cost reduction initiatives, primarily the transfer of all remaining manufacturing operations at its Santa Clara, California facility to other Vishay facilities or third-party subcontractors.
The following table summarizes the activity to date related to this program: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Severance benefits are generally paid in a lump sum at cessation of employment.
These programs were substantially implemented as of December 31, 2017.
The following table summarizes the activity to date related to this program: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The following table summarizes the expense recognized by segment related to this program: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Severance benefits are generally paid in a lump sum at cessation of employment, though some are being paid in installments.
As permitted by SAB No.
The Company may record adjustments to refine those estimates during the measurement period, as additional analysis is completed.
No adjustments were recorded during the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
Furthermore, the Company is continuing to evaluate the TCJA's provisions and may prospectively adjust its financial and capital structure and business practices accordingly.
The TCJA imposes a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign earnings of 15.5% for liquid assets and 8% for illiquid assets, payable in defined increments over eight years.
Due to the existence of the foreign cash taxes payable at the source, the Company expects to actually repatriate these amounts at a measured pace over several years, and may decide to ultimately not repatriate some of these amounts.
The Company terminated its previous cash repatriation program and recorded a provisional income tax benefit to reverse the associated deferred tax liability as a result of this planned repatriation.
No amounts were repatriated pursuant to this program in the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
The Company's effective tax rate for the period ended March 31, 2018 was negatively impacted by certain provisions of the TCJA.
The provisions of the TCJA are interrelated and the impact of any specific provision cannot be isolated.
During the three fiscal months ended March 31, 2018, the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits increased by $568 on a net basis, due to increases for tax positions taken in the current period, interest, and foreign currency effects.
18 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 6 – Long-Term Debt 



Long-term debt consists of the following: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Convertible Senior Debentures 



Vishay currently has three issuances of convertible senior debentures outstanding with generally congruent terms.
The quarterly cash dividend program of the Company results in adjustments to the conversion rate and effective conversion price for each issuance of the Company's convertible senior debentures effective as of the ex-dividend date of each cash dividend.
The following table summarizes some key facts and terms regarding the three series of outstanding convertible senior debentures following the adjustment made to the conversion rate of the debentures on the ex-dividend date of the March 29, 2018 dividend payment: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Prior to three months before the maturity date, the holders may only convert their debentures under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter after the first full quarter subsequent to issuance, if the sale price of Vishay common stock reaches 130% of the conversion price for a specified period; (2) the trading price of the debentures falls below 98% of the product of the sale price of Vishay's common stock and the conversion rate for a specified period; (3) Vishay calls any or all of the debentures for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the third scheduled trading day immediately preceding the redemption date; or (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation, due to the sale price of Vishay's common stock exceeding 130% of the conversion price for the applicable periods.
The debentures due 2040 and due 2042 will remain convertible until June 30, 2018, at which time the conversion criteria will be reevaluated.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon future conversion of any of the convertible senior debentures, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
The excess of the amount that the Company would pay to the holders of the debentures due 2040 and due 2042 upon conversion over the carrying value of the liability component of the debentures currently convertible has been reclassified as temporary equity on the consolidated condensed financial statements.
The Company intends to finance the principal amount of any converted debentures using borrowings under its credit facility.
Accordingly, the debt component of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042 continues to be classified as a non-current liability on the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
19 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



GAAP requires an issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods.
The resulting discount on the debt is amortized as non-cash interest expense in future periods.
The carrying values of the liability and equity components of the convertible debentures are reflected in the Company's consolidated condensed balance sheets as follows: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Interest is payable on the debentures semi-annually at the cash coupon rate; however, the remaining debt discount is being amortized as additional non-cash interest expense using an effective annual interest rate equal to the Company's estimated nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance.
See Note 1 for further information.
Reclassifications of pension and other post-retirement actuarial items out of AOCI are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost.
See Note 8 for further information.
21 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 8 – Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits 



The Company maintains various retirement benefit plans.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans 



The following table shows the components of the net periodic pension cost for the first fiscal quarters of 2018 and 2017 for the Company's defined benefit pension plans: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Other Postretirement Benefits 



The following table shows the components of the net periodic benefit cost for the first fiscal quarters of 2018 and 2017 for the Company's other postretirement benefit plans: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



22 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 9 – Stock-Based Compensation 



The Company has various stockholder-approved programs which allow for the grant of stock-based compensation to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company.
The amount of compensation cost related to stock-based payment transactions is measured based on the grant-date fair value of the equity instruments issued.
The Company determines compensation cost for restricted stock units ("RSUs") and phantom stock units based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying common stock adjusted for expected dividends paid over the required vesting period for non-participating awards.
Compensation cost is recognized over the period that an officer, employee, or non-employee director provides service in exchange for the award.
The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense recognized: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company recognizes compensation cost for RSUs that are expected to vest and records cumulative adjustments in the period that the expectation changes.
The following table summarizes unrecognized compensation cost and the weighted average remaining amortization periods at March 31, 2018 (amortization periods in years): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company currently expects all performance-based RSUs to vest and all of the associated unrecognized compensation cost for performance-based RSUs presented in the table above to be recognized.
23 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



2007 Stock Incentive Plan 



The Company's 2007 Stock Incentive Program (the "2007 Program"), as amended and restated, permits the grant of up to 6,500,000 shares of restricted stock, unrestricted stock, RSUs, stock options, and phantom stock units, to officers, employees, and non-employee directors of the Company.
Restricted Stock Units 



RSU activity under the 2007 Program as of March 31, 2018 and changes during the three fiscal months then ended are presented below (number of RSUs in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



* The number of RSUs vested includes shares that the Company withheld on behalf of employees to satisfy the statutory tax withholding requirements.
The number of performance-based RSUs that are scheduled to vest increases ratably based on the achievement of defined performance criteria between the established target and maximum levels.
RSUs with performance-based vesting criteria are expected to vest as follows (number of RSUs in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Phantom Stock Units 



The 2007 Program authorizes the grant of phantom stock units to the extent provided for in the Company's employment agreements with certain executives.
Each phantom stock unit entitles the recipient to receive a share of common stock at the individual's termination of employment or any other future date specified in the applicable employment agreement.
Phantom stock units participate in dividend distribution on the same basis as the Company's common stock and Class B common stock.
Dividend equivalents are issued in the form of additional units of phantom stock.
The phantom stock units are fully vested at all times.
Phantom stock unit activity under the phantom stock plan as of March 31, 2018 and changes during the three fiscal months then ended are presented below (number of phantom stock units in thousands): 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



24 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 10 – Segment Information 



Vishay is a global manufacturer and supplier of electronic components.
Vishay operates, and its chief operating decision maker makes strategic and operating decisions with regards to assessing performance and allocating resources based on, five reporting segments: MOSFETs, Diodes, Optoelectronic Components, Resistors & Inductors, and Capacitors.
These segments represent groupings of product lines based on their functionality: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Vishay's reporting segments generate substantially all of their revenue from product sales to the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets.
A small portion of revenues is from royalties.
The Company evaluates business segment performance on operating income, exclusive of certain items ("segment operating income").
Management believes that evaluating segment performance excluding such items is meaningful because it provides insight with respect to intrinsic operating results of the Company.
Business segment assets are the owned or allocated assets used by each business.
The Company also regularly evaluates gross profit by segment to assist in the analysis of consolidated gross profit.
The Company considers segment operating income to be the more important metric because it more fully captures the business operations of the segments.
25 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)    



The following tables set forth business segment information: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



*Recast for the retrospective adoption of ASUs 2014-09 and 2017-07.
See Note 1.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



***Recast for the adoption of ASU 2017-07.
See Note 1.
The distribution of sales by customer type is shown below: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Net revenues were attributable to customers in the following regions: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company generates substantially all of its revenue from product sales to end customers in the industrial, automotive, telecommunications, computing, consumer products, power supplies, military and aerospace, and medical end markets.
The Company's convertible debt instruments are only convertible for specified periods upon the occurrence of certain events.
The convertible debentures due 2042 became convertible subsequent to the December 31, 2016 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation.
The convertible debentures due 2040 became convertible subsequent to the September 30, 2017 evaluation of the conversion criteria, and have remained convertible for each subsequent quarterly evaluation through the March 31, 2018 evaluation.
In periods that the debentures are not convertible, the certain conditions which could trigger conversion of the remaining debentures have been deemed to be non-substantive, and accordingly, the Company assumes the conversion of these instruments in its diluted earnings per share computation during periods in which they are dilutive.
At the direction of its Board of Directors, the Company intends, upon conversion, to repay the principal amounts of the convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, in cash and settle any additional amounts in shares of Vishay common stock.
Accordingly, the debentures are included in the diluted earnings per share computation using the "treasury stock method" (similar to options and warrants) rather than the "if converted method" otherwise required for convertible debt.
Under the "treasury stock method," Vishay calculates the number of shares issuable under the terms of the debentures based on the average market price of Vishay common stock during the period, and that number is included in the total diluted shares figure for the period.
If the average market price is less than $12.91, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2040, if the average market price is less than $17.69, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2041, and if the average market price is less than $10.98, no shares are included in the diluted earnings per share computation for the convertible senior debentures due 2042.
29 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



Note 12 – Fair Value Measurements 



The fair value measurement accounting guidance establishes a valuation hierarchy of the inputs used to measure fair value.
This hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels.
The following is a brief description of those three levels: 



Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
These include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs that reflect the Company's own assumptions.
An asset or liability's classification within the hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
There have been no changes in the classification of any financial instruments within the fair value hierarchy in the periods presented.
The following table provides the financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value measured on a recurring basis: 



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The Company maintains non-qualified trusts, referred to as "rabbi" trusts, to fund payments under deferred compensation and non-qualified pension plans.
Rabbi trust assets consist primarily of marketable securities, classified as available-for-sale and company-owned life insurance assets.
The marketable securities held in the rabbi trusts are valued using quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The company-owned life insurance assets are valued in consultation with the Company's insurance brokers using the value of underlying assets of the insurance contracts.
The fair value measurement of the marketable securities held in the rabbi trust is considered a Level 1 measurement and the measurement of the company-owned life insurance assets is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
30 



NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)   



The Company holds investments in equity securities that are intended to fund a portion of its pension and other postretirement benefit obligations outside of the United States.
The investments are valued based on quoted market prices on the last business day of the period.
The fair value measurement of the investments is considered a Level 1 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The convertible senior debentures, due 2040, due 2041, and due 2042, issued by the Company on November 9, 2010, May 13, 2011, and May 31, 2012, respectively, contain embedded derivative features that GAAP requires to be bifurcated and remeasured each reporting period.
Each quarter, the change in the fair value of the embedded derivative features, if any, is recorded in the consolidated condensed statements of operations.
The Company uses a derivative valuation model to derive the value of the embedded derivative features.
The first three aforementioned inputs are based on observable market data and are considered Level 2 inputs while the last two aforementioned inputs are unobservable and thus require management's judgment and are considered Level 3 inputs.
The fair value measurement is considered a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The Company enters into forward contracts with highly-rated financial institutions to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with intercompany loans denominated in a currency other than the legal entity's functional currency.
The notional amount of the forward contracts was $100,000 and $100,000 as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The forward contracts are short-term in nature and are expected to be renewed at the Company's discretion until the intercompany loans are repaid.
The Company estimates the fair value of the forward contracts based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using current market information and is considered a Level 2 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.
The value of the forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2018.
The fair value of the long-term debt, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 is approximately $1,015,400 and $1,071,200, respectively, compared to its carrying value, excluding the derivative liabilities and deferred financing costs, of $414,342 and $379,033, respectively.
The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt using a combination of quoted market prices for similar financing arrangements and expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are considered Level 2 inputs.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's short-term investments were comprised of time deposits with financial institutions that have maturities that exceed 90 days from the date of acquisition; however they all mature within one year from the respective balance sheet dates.
The Company's short-term investments are accounted for as held-to-maturity debt instruments, at amortized cost, which approximates their fair value.
The investments are funded with excess cash not expected to be needed for operations prior to maturity; therefore, the Company believes it has the intent and ability to hold the short-term investments until maturity.
At each reporting date, the Company performs an evaluation to determine if any unrealized losses are other-than-temporary.
No other-than-temporary impairments have been recognized on these securities, and there are no unrecognized holding gains or losses for these securities during the periods presented.
There have been no transfers to or from the held-to-maturity classification.
All decreases in the account balance are due to returns of principal at the securities' maturity dates.
Interest on the securities is recognized as interest income when earned.
At March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company's cash and cash equivalents were comprised of demand deposits, time deposits with maturities of three months or less when purchased, and money market funds.
The Company estimates the fair value of its cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments using level 2 inputs.
Based on the current interest rates for similar investments with comparable credit risk and time to maturity, the fair value of the Company's cash, cash equivalents, and held-to-maturity short-term investments approximate the carrying amounts reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets.
The Company's financial instruments also include accounts receivable, short-term notes payable, and accounts payable.
The carrying amounts for these financial instruments reported in the consolidated condensed balance sheets approximate their fair values.
31 



 Item 1.
Legal Proceedings     



Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018, describe certain of our legal proceedings.
Except as described below, there have been no material developments to the legal proceedings previously disclosed.
The conduct attributable to VPC occurred prior to the acquisition of that entity by Vishay in 2014.
Holy Stone has agreed to indemnify Vishay and VPC for losses, including penalties and expenses associated with the investigation described above.
Item 1A.
