ITEM 1.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  



(In thousands, except per share data)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
3 of 24   



Table of Contents 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  



(In thousands)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
4 of 24   



Table of Contents 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  



(In thousands, except per share data)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
5 of 24   



Table of Contents 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Continued on next page.
6 of 24   



Table of Contents 



 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
7 of 24   



Table of Contents 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  



(In thousands)  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
8 of 24   



Table of Contents 



WATSCO, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



March 31, 2019  



(In thousands, except share and per share data)  



 1.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION  



Basis of Consolidation  



Watsco, Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Watsco,” “we,” “us” or “our”) was incorporated in Florida in 1956 and is the largest distributor of air conditioning, heating and refrigeration equipment and related parts and supplies (“HVAC/R”) in the HVAC/R distribution industry in North America.
The accompanying March 31, 2019 interim condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments, consisting of normal and recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation have been included in the condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements included herein.
The condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements contained in this report include the accounts of Watsco, all of its wholly owned subsidiaries and the accounts of three joint ventures with Carrier Corporation (“Carrier”), in each of which Watsco maintains a controlling interest.
All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales of residential central air conditioners, heating equipment, and parts and supplies are seasonal.
Furthermore, results of operations can be impacted favorably or unfavorably based on weather patterns, primarily during the Summer and Winter selling seasons.
Recently Adopted Accounting Standards  



Leases  



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued guidance on accounting for leases, which requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets for the rights and obligations created by those leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued updated guidance that provides an additional transition method of adoption that allows entities to initially apply the standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The adoption of this standard and its related amendments (collectively, the “New Lease Standard”) on January 1, 2019, did not result in the recognition of a cumulative adjustment to opening retained earnings under the additional transition method, nor did it have a significant impact on our consolidated statements of income or cash flows.
See Note 2.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted  



Intangibles—Goodwill and Other  



In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Under this updated standard, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, but the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
This guidance is effective prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019 with early adoption permitted.
9 of 24   



Table of Contents 



 2.
LEASES  



Adoption of New Lease Standard  



We adopted the New Lease Standard on January 1, 2019 using the additional transition method described in Note 1 to these condensed consolidated unaudited financial statements.
The New Lease Standard had a material impact on our consolidated balance sheet due to the recognition of right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for operating leases, while accounting for finance leases remained substantially unchanged.
Results for reporting periods beginning on and after January 1, 2019 are presented under the New Lease Standard, while prior period results have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
Practical Expedients  



We elected the package of practical expedients not to reassess 1) whether existing contracts contain embedded leases, 2) lease classification for existing leases and 3) whether initial direct costs for existing leases would qualify for capitalization under the New Lease Standard.
We also elected the practical expedients related to short-term leases and separating lease components from non-lease components for all underlying asset classes.
Operating and Finance Leases  



We have operating leases for real property, vehicles and equipment and finance leases primarily for vehicles.
Operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use assets, current portion of long-term obligations, and operating lease liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.
Finance lease ROU assets at March 31, 2019 of $2,783 are included in property and equipment, net in our consolidated balance sheet.
Finance lease liabilities at March 31, 2019 of $2,882 are included in current portion of long-term obligations and other long-term obligations, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheet.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement dates of the respective leases in determining the present value of the applicable lease payments.
Operating lease ROU assets also include any lease pre-payments made and exclude lease incentives.
Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1-9 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to five years.
Certain real property lease agreements have lease and non-lease components, which are generally accounted for as a single lease component.
Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease payments for short-term leases, which are 12 months or less without a purchase option that is likely to be exercised, are recognized as lease cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The components of operating lease expense were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



10 of 24   



Table of Contents 



Supplemental balance sheet information related to operating leases were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



Supplemental cash flow information related to operating leases were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



At March 31, 2019, maturities of operating lease liabilities over each of the next five years and thereafter were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



At March 31, 2019, we had additional operating leases, primarily for real property, that had not yet commenced.
Such leases had estimated future minimum rental commitments of approximately $14,000.
These operating leases are expected to commence in 2019 with lease terms of 5-11 years.
These undiscounted amounts are not included in the table above.
Prior to the adoption of the New Lease Standard, rental commitments on an undiscounted basis were approximately $219,300 at December 31, 2018 under non-cancelable operating leases and were payable as follows: $70,400 in 2019, $55,100 in 2020, $41,300 in 2021, $28,500 in 2022, $15,700 in 2023 and $8,300 thereafter.
11 of 24   



Table of Contents 



 3.
12 of 24   



Table of Contents 



 5.
The tax effects allocated to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



The changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, were as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 6.
DEBT  



We maintain an unsecured, $500,000 syndicated multicurrency revolving credit agreement, which we use to fund seasonal working capital needs and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, dividends (if and as declared by our Board of Directors), capital expenditures, stock repurchases and issuances of letters of credit.
The credit facility has a seasonal component from October 1 to March 31, during which the borrowing capacity may be reduced to $400,000 at our discretion (which would effectively reduce fees payable in respect of the unused portion of the commitment).
Included in the credit facility are a $100,000 swingline subfacility, a $10,000 letter of credit subfacility, a $75,000 alternative currency borrowing sublimit and an $8,000 Mexican borrowing sublimit.
The credit agreement matures on December 5, 2023.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, $137,500 and $135,200, respectively, were outstanding under the revolving credit agreement.
We believe we were in compliance with all covenants at March 31, 2019.
13 of 24   



Table of Contents 



At March 31, 2019, $2,340 of short-term borrowings were outstanding under a credit line established by our Mexican subsidiary.
This line of credit has a one-year term, maturing on June 12, 2019, is non-committed and provides for borrowings of up to approximately $3,900 (MXN 75,000) for general corporate purposes.
No short-term borrowings were outstanding under this credit line at December 31, 2018.
7.
DERIVATIVES  



We enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the earnings impact that foreign exchange rate fluctuations would otherwise have on certain monetary liabilities that are denominated in nonfunctional currencies.
Cash Flow Hedging Instruments  



We enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges.
The settlement of these derivatives results in reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings for the period in which the settlement of these instruments occurs.
The maximum period for which we hedge our cash flow using these instruments is 12 months.
Accordingly, at March 31, 2019, all of our open foreign currency forward contracts had maturities of one year or less.
The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges at March 31, 2019 was $44,100, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through December 2019.
The impact from foreign exchange derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges was as follows:  



  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



At March 31, 2019, we expected an estimated $340 pre-tax gain to be reclassified into earnings to reflect the fixed prices obtained from foreign exchange hedging within the next 12 months.
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments  



We have also entered into foreign currency forward and option contracts that are either not designated as hedges or did not qualify for hedge accounting.
These derivative instruments were effective economic hedges for all of the periods presented.
The total notional value of our foreign currency exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments at March 31, 2019 was $9,060, and such contracts have varying terms expiring through July 2019.
See Note 8.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



14 of 24   



Table of Contents 



 8.
Fair values for these investments are based on closing stock prices from active markets and are therefore classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
Derivative financial instruments – these derivatives are foreign currency forward and option contracts.
See Note 7.
Fair value is based on observable market inputs, such as forward rates in active markets; therefore, we classify these derivatives within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
There were no transfers in or out of Level 1 and Level 2 during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
9.
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY  



Common Stock Dividends  



We paid cash dividends of $1.60 and $1.25 per share of Common stock and Class B common stock during the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
These shares were retired upon delivery.
15 of 24   



Table of Contents 



 10.
Self-Insurance  



Self-insurance reserves are maintained relative to company-wide casualty insurance and health benefit programs.
The level of exposure from catastrophic events is limited by the purchase of stop-loss and aggregate liability reinsurance coverage.
Management reviews its assumptions with its independent third-party actuaries to evaluate whether the self-insurance reserves are adequate.
If actual claims or adverse development of loss reserves occur and exceed these estimates, additional reserves may be required.
11.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  



Purchases from Carrier and its affiliates comprised 61% and 62% of all inventory purchases made during the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, approximately $101,000 and $71,000, respectively, was payable to Carrier and its affiliates, net of receivables.
Our joint ventures with Carrier also sell HVAC products to Carrier and its affiliates.
We believe these transactions are conducted on terms equivalent to an arm’s-length basis in the ordinary course of business.
A member of our Board of Directors is the Senior Chairman of Greenberg Traurig, P.A., which serves as our principal outside counsel and receives customary fees for legal services.
During the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, we paid this firm $0 and $4, respectively, for services performed, and no amount was payable at both March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018.
A member of our Board of Directors is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Moss & Associates LLC, which served as general contractor for the remodeling of our Miami headquarters that was completed in 2018.
We paid Moss & Associates LLC $53 for construction services performed during the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
12.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS  



On April 2, 2019, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Dunphey & Associates Supply Co., Inc., a distributor of air conditioning and heating products operating from seven locations in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut.
The purchase price was composed of cash consideration of $16,781 and the issuance of 50,952 shares of Common stock having a fair value of $7,450.
This acquisition increased Carrier Enterprise I’s ownership interest in RSI to 38.1%.
