 Item 2.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  



 Overview  



 We distribute software and hardware developed by others through resellers indirectly to customers worldwide.
We also resell computer software and hardware developed by others to customers in the USA and Canada.
In addition, we operate a sales branch in Europe to serve our customers in this region of the world.
We offer an extensive line of products from leading publishers of software and tools for virtualization/cloud computing, security, networking, storage and infrastructure management, application lifecycle management and other technically sophisticated domains as well as computer hardware.
We market these products through creative marketing communications, including our web sites, local and on-line seminars, webinars, social media, direct e-mail, and printed materials.
The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators 



 17  



worldwide.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
The Company’s operating expenditures are based on sales forecasts.
Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 and $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $1.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, respectively.
Stock Volatility.
The technology sector of the United States stock markets is subject to substantial volatility.
Forward Looking Statements  



 This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Financial Overview  



 Net sales increased 6%, or $2.5 million, to $40.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to $38.1 million for the same period in 2017.
Gross profit increased 2%, or $0.1 million, to $6.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to $6.8 million in the prior year.
Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased 2%, or $0.1 million, to $5.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to the same period last year.
Net income increased 21%, or $0.3 million, to $1.6 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to $1.3 million in the same period last year.
Income per share-diluted increased 23% to $0.36 for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to $0.29 for the same period in 2017, partially due to the decrease in weighted average diluted shares outstanding.
On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.
Revenue  



 The Company adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with customers using the full retrospective method effective January 1, 2018.
See Note 5 to the accompanying financial statements for further information.
The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations.
These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original 



 19  



software download.
We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.
Allowance for Accounts Receivable  



 The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
Management determines the estimate of the allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable by considering a number of factors, including: historical experience, aging of the accounts receivable, and specific information obtained by the Company on the financial condition and the current creditworthiness of its customers.
If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.
At the time of sale, we record an estimate for sales returns based on historical experience.
If actual sales returns are greater than estimated by management, additional expense may be incurred.
Accounts Receivable – Long Term  



 The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale based on prevailing rates.
In doing so, the Company considers competitive market rates and other factors.
Inventory Allowances  



 The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
Share-Based Payments  



 Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
We record the impact of forfeitures when they occur.
Such changes may lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in connection with share-based payments.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



  In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, superseding the previous revenue recognition requirements for contracts, along with most existing industry-specific guidance.
In March, April, May and December 2016, the FASB issued additional updates to the new accounting standard which provide supplemental adoption guidance and clarifications.
The guidance requires an entity to review contracts in five steps: 1) identify the contract, 2) identify performance obligations, 3) determine the transaction price, 4) allocate the transaction price, and 5) recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2018, using the full retrospective method which required us to restate our historical financial information to reflect the adoption as of the earliest reporting period presented.
The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software and 



 20  



software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services.
See Footnote 5 (Revenue Recognition).
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02").
ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13").
ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
ASU No.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition for accounts receivable.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
The new standard is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2018.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory.” This amendment is intended to improve accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In accordance with this guidance, an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
The ASU is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2019.
Early adoption is permitted in fiscal 2018 with modified retrospective application.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.
This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements.
The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.
ASU No.
2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
tax reform”) from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to Retained earnings.
This new guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted and must be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to periods in which the effects of the TCJA are recognized.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include net sales, gross margin, adjusted gross billings, gross profit as a percentage of gross billings, net income as a percentage of net sales and net income as a percentage of gross billings.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security and highly interdependent with support and Maintenance, support and other services.
We provided a reconciliation of Adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.
22  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017  



 Net Sales  



 Net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 6%, or $2.5 million, to $40.6 million, compared to $38.1 million for the same period in 2017, as increased net sales in our Lifeboat Distribution segment were offset in part by decreased extended payment sales in our TechXtend segment.
Adjusted gross billings for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased 11%, or $12.3 million, to $125.1 million, compared to $112.8 million for the same period in 2017.
Adjusted gross billings increased at a higher rate than net sales primarily due to a higher percentage of sales being comprised of maintenance and software -security and highly interdependent with support which are recorded on a net basis.
Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased $3.0 million, or 9% to $36.8 million, compared to $33.8 million for the same period a year earlier.
The increase was due primarily to growth in sales penetration for several of our more significant product lines, as well as the addition of several new product lines.
The increases were partially offset by turnover in some vendor and customer accounts.
Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment increased $14.5 million or 14% to $119.0 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
Adjusted gross billings increased at a faster rate than net sales because of a higher percentage of our sales being derived from maintenance services and subscriptions which are recorded net of cost of sales.
TechXtend segment net sales decreased $0.5 million or 13% to $3.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to $4.3 million for the prior year.
The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in extended payment term sales compared to the first quarter of 2017.
Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment decreased $2.3 million or 27% to $6.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018.
During the quarter ended March 31, 2018, we relied on two key customers for a total of 44.1% of our gross billings.
One major customer accounted for 25.9% and the other for 18.2%, of our total net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
These same customers accounted for 34.8% and 13.5%, of total net accounts receivable as of March 31, 2018.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit increased 6% or $0.3 million to $6.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 compared $5.8 million for the same period in 2017 due to sales growth discussed above.
TechXtend segment gross profit decreased 23% to $0.7 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 compared to $0.9 million for the same period in the prior year due to decreased extended payment terms sales.
Extended payment term sales fluctuate from period to period based on market conditions and internal capital allocation decisions.
Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 17.0% compared to 17.7% in 2017.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin was 16.8% for the quarter ended March 31, 



 23  



2018, compared to 17.3% in 2017.
TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was 19.1%, compared to 21.5% in 2017.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  



 SG&A expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 increased $0.1 million, or 2%, to approximately $5.0 million when compared to the same period in 2017.
The increase is primarily due to increased professional fees and public company costs.
SG&A expenses were 12.4% of net sales for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, compared to 13.0% for the same period in 2017.
We plan to continue to expand our investment in information technology and marketing, while monitoring SG&A expenses closely.
Income Taxes  



 For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.5 million or 23.4% of income, compared to $0.6 million or 32.0% of income for the same period in 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the change in the federal tax rate due to the TCJA.
As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the TCJA and any additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts.
The accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA will be completed in 2018.
Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $1.5 million to $7.0 million at March 31, 2018 from $5.5 million at December 31, 2017.
The increase in cash was primarily the result of $2.5 million in cash provided by operating activities offset by $0.9 million of cash used for stock repurchases and dividends.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $2.5 million, comprised of net income adjusted for non-cash items of $2.1 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.4 million.
The increase in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in net working capital (accounts receivable, inventory, and vendor prepayments less accounts payable) resulting from the utilization of vendor prepayments made in the prior year.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $0.1 million, compared to $0.2 million in the prior year.
Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $0.9 million was comprised of $0.8 million of dividend payments on our Common Stock, and $0.1 million for the stock repurchases.
On November 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $20,000,000 revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Citibank, N.A.
(“Citibank”) pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Agreement (the 



 24  



“Loan Agreement”), Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Note (the “Note”), Second Amended and Restated Security Agreement (the “Security Agreement”) and Second Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”).
The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any interest, fees, costs and expenses, if any.
As of March 31, 2018, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.
We anticipate that our working capital needs will increase as we invest in the growth of our business.
We believe that the funds held in cash and cash equivalents and our unused borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Contractual Obligations as of March 31, 2018 are summarized as follows: (000’s)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    Operating leases relate primarily to the leases of the space used for our operations in Eatontown, New Jersey, Mesa Arizona, Mississauga, Canada and Amsterdam, Netherlands.
The commitments for operating leases include the minimum rent payments.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under our lines of credit and no commitments relating to standby letters of credit, and has no standby repurchase obligations or other commercial commitments (see Note 8 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements).
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  



 As of March 31, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
Item 2.
- Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The table below sets forth the repurchase of Common Stock by the Company and its affiliated purchasers during the   



 first quarter of 2018.
ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    Includes 9,126 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.
These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below.
(2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable.
(3)    Average price paid per share reflects the price of the Company’s Common Stock purchased on the open market.
(4)    On December 3, 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
The Company expects to purchase shares of its Common Stock from time to time in the market or otherwise subject to market conditions.
The Common Stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
27  



 Item 6.
Exhibits  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 28  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 29
