 Item 1.
3  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
4  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
5  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
6  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
7  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  



 March 31, 2019  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in tables in thousands, except share and per share amounts)  



 1.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2018.
2.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards:  



 In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02").
ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
In transition, lessees and lessors were originally required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
In July 2018, FASB issued ASU No.
2018-11, Targeted Improvements.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The Company adopted the new accounting standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition option.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Also, in accordance with the new standard, the Company has elected in transition and for an ongoing basis not to apply the recognition requirements for all short-term leases.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
The Company also recognized corresponding ROU assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million.
8  



 Table of Contents  



 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13").
ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
ASU No.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
The new standard is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50.
The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718.
The guidance also allows nonpublic entities to account for nonemployee awards using certain practical expedients that are already available for employee awards, but the same accounting policies must be used for awards to both employees and nonemployees.
The new standard is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements (“ASU 2018-09”), which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification.
The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment.
Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard.
A majority of the amendments in ASU 2018-09 are effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019.
3.
The net sales from our foreign operations for the first three months of 2019 were $5.2 million as compared to $5.4 million in the first three months of 2018.
4.
Revenue Recognition:  



 The core principle of the revenue recognition criteria is to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.
Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services that will be transferred to the customer that are capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct in the context of the contract.
Determination of the transaction price —The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
Net sales are recorded net of estimated discounts, rebates, and returns.
Vendor rebates are recorded when earned as a reduction to cost of sales or inventory, as applicable.
Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, basis.
We determine SSP based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
Contracts with a significant financing component are discounted to their present value at contract inception and accreted up to the expected payment amounts.
These contracts generally offer customers extended payment terms of up to three years.
The Company considers the following indicators in determining when control passes to the customer: (i) the Company has a right to payment for the product or service (ii) the customer has legal title to the product, (iii) the Company has transferred physical possession of the product (iv) the Customer has the significant risk and rewards of ownership of the product and (v) the customer has accepted the product.
Finance fees related to sales are classified as interest income.
The following table depicts the disaggregation of revenue according to revenue type and is consistent with how we evaluate our financial performance:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 Hardware, software and other products - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties.
Hardware product is delivered from our warehouse or drop shipped directly from the vendor.
Control is generally deemed to have passed to the customer upon transfer of title and risk of ownership.
10  



 Table of Contents  



  Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support.
Software licenses are delivered via electronic license keys provided by the vendor to the end user.
Revenue from the sale of software products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to our customers as the Company is a principal in the transaction.
Software maintenance and support, commonly known as software assurance or post contract support, consists of software updates and technical support provided by the software vendor to the licensor over a period.
In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license.
We utilize judgement in determining whether the maintenance is distinct from the software itself.
This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality.
Software - security and highly interdependent with support - Software - security software and software highly interdependent with support consists of sales of security subscriptions and other licensed software products whose functionality is highly interdependent with, and therefore not distinct from, related software maintenance.
Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products.
The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.
Maintenance, support and other services revenue - Maintenance, support and other services revenue consists of third-party post-contract support that is not critical or essential to the core functionality of the related licensed software, and, to a lesser extent, from third-party professional services, software as a service, and cloud subscriptions.
Contract balances - Accounts receivable is recorded at the invoiced amount, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts.
Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30-75 days.
The balance of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 is presented in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
The Company has determined that these amounts do not represent variable consideration as the amount earned is fixed.
In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years.
The amounts due under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable and are shown net of reserves.
Refund liability – The Company records a refund liability for expected product returns with a corresponding asset for an amount representing any expected recovery from vendors regarding the return.
11  



 Table of Contents  



 Principal versus agent considerations – The Company determines whether it is acting as a principal or agent in a transaction by assessing whether it controls a good or service prior to it being transferred to a customer, with control being defined as having the ability to direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the asset.
The Company considers the following indicators, among others, in making the determination: 1) the Company is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the promised good or service, 2) the Company has inventory risk, before or after the specified good or service has been transferred to the customer, and 3) the Company has discretion in establishing price for the specified good or service.
As we enter into distribution agreements with third-party service providers, we evaluate whether we are acting as a principal or agent for each product sold under the agreement based on the nature of the product or service, and our performance obligations.
Products for which there are significant ongoing third-party performance obligations include software maintenance, which includes periodic software updates and support, security software that is highly interdependent with maintenance, software as a service, cloud and third-party professional services.
Sales where we are acting as an agent are recognized on a net basis at the date our performance obligations are complete.
6.
Right-of-use Asset and Lease Liability:  



 The Company has entered into operating leases for office and warehouse facilities, which have terms at lease commencement that range from 3 years to 11 years.
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets and lease expense for these leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date of the lease based on the present value of the lease payments over the lease term.
As our leases do not provide a readily determinable implicit rate, we use an incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date, including lease term, in determining the present value of future payments.
The operating lease asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Information related to the Company’s right-of-use assets and related lease liabilities were as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    Represents operating leases existing on January 1, 2019 and recognized as part of the Company’s adoption of ASU 2016-02.
No new operating leases commenced during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
12  



 Table of Contents  



 Maturities of lease liabilities as of March 31, 2019 were as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 7.
Fair Value:  



 The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated fair value at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 because of the relative short maturity of these instruments.
The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale.
8.
Balance Sheet Detail:  



 Equipment and leasehold improvements consist of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded depreciation and amortization expense of $0.1 million, respectively, which is included in selling, general and administrative expense.
In limited circumstances, the Company offers extended payment terms to customers for periods of 12 to 48 months.
The related customer receivables are classified as accounts receivable long-term and discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale.
In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years.
The amounts under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable.
At times the Company sells receivables to a financial institution on a non-recourse basis for cash, less a discount.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
Accounts receivable long term, net consists of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 13  



 Table of Contents  



 The undiscounted cash flows to be received by the Company relating to these accounts receivable long-term will be $7.4 million, $2.9 million and $0.3 million during the 12-month periods ending March 31, 2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively.
Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 9.  Credit Facility:  



 On November 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $20,000,000 revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Citibank, N.A.
(“Citibank”) pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Note (the “Note”), Second Amended and Restated Security Agreement (the “Security Agreement”) and Second Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”).
In addition, the Company will pay regular monthly payments of all accrued and unpaid interest.
The interest rate for any borrowings under the Credit Facility is subject to change from time to time based on the changes in the LIBOR Rate, as defined in the Loan Agreement (the “Index”).
The Index was 3.88% at March 31, 2019.
Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Note will be calculated using a rate of 1.50 percentage points over the Index.
If the Index becomes unavailable during the term of the Credit Facility, interest will be based upon the Prime Rate (as defined in the Loan Agreement) after notifying the Company.
The Credit Facility is secured by the assets of the Company.
Among other affirmative covenants set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Company must maintain (i) a minimum Debt Service Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of not less than 2.0 to 1.0, (ii) a maximum Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of at least 2.5 to 1.0, and (iii) a minimum Collateral Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of not less than 1.5 to 1.0.
Additionally, the Loan Agreement contains negative covenants prohibiting, among other things, the creation of certain liens, the alteration of the nature or character of the Company’s business, and transactions with the Company’s shareholders, directors, officers, subsidiaries and/or affiliates other than with respect to (i) the repurchase of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company from the stockholders of the Company or (ii) the declaration and payment of dividends to the stockholders of the Company.
At March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility.
10.
Earnings Per Share:  



 Our basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the two-class method.
Non-vested restricted stock awards that include non-forfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities.
Per share amounts are computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average shares outstanding during each period.
14  



 Table of Contents  



 A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted per share computations follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 11.
The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 32% and 15%, respectively, of total purchases during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
These same customers accounted for 41% and 9% respectively, of total net accounts receivable as of March 31, 2019.
Two customers accounted for 36% and 15% of total net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 26% and 18%, respectively, of its total net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
12.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 25.0% compared to 23.4% for the same period in the prior year.
13.
Stockholders’ Equity and Stock Based Compensation:  



 The 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan (the “2012 Plan”) authorizes the grant of Stock Options, Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock, Stock Bonuses and other equity-based awards.
The total number of shares of Common Stock initially available for award under the 2012 Plan was 600,000, which was increased to 1,000,000 shares by shareholder approval at the Company’s 2018 Annual Meeting in June 2018.
15  



 Table of Contents  



 During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company granted a total of 60,500 shares of Restricted Stock to officers and employees.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between sixteen and twenty equal quarterly installments.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company granted a total of 20,405 shares of Restricted Stock to officers and employees.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest over sixteen equal quarterly installments.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, a total of 1,625 shares of Restricted Stock were forfeited.
A summary of nonvested shares of Restricted Stock awards outstanding under the 2012 Plan as of March 31, 2019, and changes during the three months then ended is as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 As of March 31, 2019, there is approximately $1.5 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements.
The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.9 years.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized share-based compensation cost of $0.2 million and $0.3 million, respectively.
All share-based compensation is included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
14.
The internal organization used by the public company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to assess performance and allocate resources determines the basis for reportable operating segments.
The Company’s CODM is the President and Chief Executive Officer.
The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the United States and Canada.
As permitted by FASB ASC Topic 280, the Company has utilized the aggregation criteria in combining its operations in Canada with the domestic segments as the Canadian operations provide the same products and services to similar clients and are considered together when the Company’s CODM decides how to allocate resources.
The Company only identifies accounts receivable and inventory by segment as shown below as “Selected Assets” by segment; it does not allocate its other assets, including capital expenditures by segment.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 17  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 15.
Separation Charges:  



 On May 11, 2018, the Company entered into a Separation and Release Agreement (the “Separation Agreement”) with its former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer upon his resignation from the Company.
The Separation Agreement supersedes and replaces the Employment Agreement, dated January 12, 2006, between the former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and the Company.
The former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer was entitled to receive (a) a cash payment of $0.7 million, payable in 12 consecutive, equal monthly installments on the fifteenth day of each month, commencing June 15, 2018; provided that the monthly payments were delayed until the earlier to occur of the former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s death or November 19, 2018 (the “Delay Period”), and upon the expiration of the Delay Period, all payments that were delayed were paid in a lump sum, (b) a one-time, lump sum cash payment of $0.03 million (the former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer’s then current monthly salary) payable within 30 days after the separation date so long as the former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer performed certain transition services to the extent reasonably requested by the Company, which was paid; and (c) payment of accrued vacation equal to $0.04 million; all stock options and stock awards issued to the former Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, consisting solely of 109,084 shares of restricted Common Stock issued under the 2012 Plan, became fully vested and immediately exercisable and remain exercisable through their original terms.
There was no expense recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, related to the Separation Agreement.
18  



 Table of Contents
