 Item 2.
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019.
We also resell computer software and hardware developed by others to customers in the United States and Canada.
We offer an extensive line of products from leading publishers of software and tools for virtualization/cloud computing, security, networking, storage and infrastructure management, application lifecycle management and other technically sophisticated domains as well as computer hardware.
We market these products through creative marketing communications, including our web sites, local and on-line seminars, webinars, social media, direct e-mail, and printed materials.
The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.
In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers.
The Company’s operating expenditures are based on sales forecasts.
Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.1 million for the 



 19  



 Table of Contents  



quarter ended March 31, 2018, respectively.
Stock Volatility.
The technology sector of the United States stock markets is subject to substantial volatility.
We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers on retrospective basis effective January 1, 2018.
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
We refer to these items as being recorded on a “net basis” in the discussion below.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
Forward Looking Statements  



 This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”).
The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Financial Overview  



 Net sales increased 11%, or $4.4 million, to $44.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 compared to $40.5 million for the same period in the prior year.
Gross profit increased 5%, or $0.3 million, to $7.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 compared to $6.9 million for the same period in the prior year.
Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased 9%, or $0.5 million, to $5.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, compared to $5.0 million for the same period in the prior year.
Net income decreased 8%, or $0.1 million, to $1.5 million for the quarter ended March 31, 



 20  



 Table of Contents  



2019, compared to $1.6 million for the same period in the prior year.
Diluted income per share for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 was $0.32 compared to diluted income per share of $0.36 for the same period in the prior year.
On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.
These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download.
We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.
Allowance for Accounts Receivable  



 The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments.
Management determines the estimate of the allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable by considering a number of factors, including: historical experience, aging of the accounts receivable, and specific information obtained by the Company on the financial condition and the current creditworthiness of its customers.
If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.
At the time of sale, we record an estimate for sales returns based on historical experience.
If actual sales returns are greater than estimated by management, additional expense may be incurred.
Accounts Receivable – Long Term  



 In limited circumstances, the Company offers extended payment terms to customers for periods of 12 to 48 months.
The related customer receivables are classified as accounts receivable long-term and discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale.
In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years.
The amounts under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable.
At times the Company sells receivables to a financial institution on a non-recourse basis for cash, less a discount.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
Inventory Allowances  



 The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
Share-Based Payments  



 Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.
We record the impact of forfeitures when they occur.
Such changes may lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in connection with share-based payments.
Interest, Net  



 Interest, net consists primarily of income from the amortization of the discount on accounts receivable long term, net of interest expense on the Company’s credit facility.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  



 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02").
ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
In transition, lessees and lessors were originally required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach.
In July 2018, FASB issued ASU No.
2018-11, Targeted Improvements.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The Company adopted the new accounting standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective transition option.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
Also, in accordance with the new standard, the Company has elected in transition and for an ongoing basis not to apply the recognition requirements for all short-term leases.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
The Company also recognized corresponding right-of-use assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million.
There is no impact to stockholders’ equity from the adoption.
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13").
ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
ASU No.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No.
2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
tax reform”) from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings.
The new standard is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
In June 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
It expands the scope of ASC 718 to include share-based payments granted to nonemployees in exchange for goods or services used or consumed in the entity’s own operations and supersedes the guidance in ASC 505-50.
The ASU retains the existing cost attribution guidance, which requires entities to recognize compensation cost for nonemployee awards in the same period and in the same manner (i.e., capitalize or expense) they would if they paid cash for the goods or services, but it moves the guidance to ASC 718.
The guidance also allows nonpublic entities to account for nonemployee awards using certain practical expedients that are already available for employee awards, but the same accounting policies must be used for awards to both employees and nonemployees.
The new standard is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements (“ASU 2018-09”), which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification.
The effective date of the standard is dependent on the facts and circumstances of each amendment.
Some amendments do not require transition guidance and will be effective upon the issuance of this standard.
A majority of the amendments in ASU 2018-09 are effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2019.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include net sales, gross margin, adjusted gross billings, gross profit as a percentage of gross billings, net income as a percentage of net sales, and net income as a percentage of gross billings.
23  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security or highly interdependent with support and maintenance, support or other services.
We provided a reconciliation of adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure.
In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 24  



 Table of Contents  



 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018  



 Net Sales  



 Net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 11%, or $4.4 million, to $44.9 million, compared to $40.5 million for the same period in the prior year.
Adjusted gross billings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 13%, or $16.8 million, to $141.9 million compared to $125.1 million for the same period in the prior year.
Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $3.3 million, or 9%, to $40.1 million compared to $36.8 million for the same period in the prior year.
The increase was due primarily to growth in sales penetration for several of our more significant product lines, as well as the addition of several new product lines.
Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $15.3 million, or 13%, to $134.3 million compared to $119.0 million for the same period in the prior year.
TechXtend segment net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.1 million, or 29%, to $4.8 million compared to $3.7 million for the prior year.
The increase was primarily due to several high dollar enterprise sale transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.5 million, or 25%, to $7.6 million compared to $6.1 million for the same period in the prior year.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019, we relied on two key customers for a total of 44% of our net sales, with one of these customers accounting for 26% and the other customer accounting for 18% of our total net sales during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
These same customers accounted for 41% and 9% of total net accounts receivable as of March 31, 2019.
Two customers accounted for 36% and 15% of total net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2018.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 26% and 18%, respectively, of its total net sales during the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Gross Profit  



 Gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 5%, or $0.3 million, to $7.2 million compared to $6.9 million for the same period in the prior year.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 remained consistent at $6.2 million when compared to the same period in the prior year while TechXtend segment gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased 46%, or $0.3 million, to $1.0 million compared to $0.7 million due to the higher net sales discussed above.
Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 16.1% compared to 17.0% for the same period in the prior year.
During the three months ended March 31, 2019 approximately 10.4% of our net sales was attributable to security, maintenance and third-party service products which are recorded on a net basis, or an effective 100% gross profit margin, compared to 11.6% for the same period in the prior year.
Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 15.5% compared to 16.8% for the same period in the prior year.
TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 21.6% compared to 19.1% for the same period in the prior year.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  



 SG&A expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $0.5 million, or 9%, to $5.5 million compared to $5.0 million for the same period in the prior year.
The increase is primarily due to higher sales and marketing expenses related to increased sales personnel to support new vendor lines.
SG&A expenses were 12.3% of net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2019, compared to 12.4% for the same period in the prior year.
We plan to continue to expand our investment in business development, sales and marketing to maximize our market penetration.
Income Taxes  



 For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.5 million, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 25.0% compared to 23.4% for the same period in the prior year.
Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 Our cash and cash equivalents decreased to $14.1 million as of March 31, 2019 compared to $14.9 million as of December 31, 2018.
The decrease in cash was primarily the result of $0.8 million of cash used for dividends.
Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was less than $0.1 million, comprised primarily of net income adjusted for non-cash items of $1.8 million, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $1.8 million.
Net cash used in changes in working capital increased as increases in accounts receivables were offset by the utilization of vendor prepayments.
Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $0.1 million respectively.
Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $0.8 million, primarily comprised of dividend payments on our Common Stock.
On November 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $20,000,000 revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Citibank, N.A.
(“Citibank”) pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Note (the “Note”), Second Amended and Restated Security Agreement (the “Security Agreement”) and Second Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”).
The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any interest, fees, costs and expenses, if any.
As of March 31, 2019, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.
We anticipate that our working capital needs will increase as we invest in the growth of our business.
We believe that the funds held in cash and cash equivalents and our unused borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Contractual Obligations as of March 31, 2019 are summarized as follows:   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    Operating leases relate primarily to the leases of the space used for our operations in Eatontown, New Jersey; Mesa Arizona; Mississauga, Canada; and Amsterdam, Netherlands.
The commitments for operating leases include the minimum rent payments.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under our lines of credit and no commitments relating to standby letters of credit, and has no standby repurchase obligations or other commercial commitments (see Note 8 in the Notes to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements).
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  



 As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
Item 2.
- Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The table below sets forth the repurchase of Common Stock by the Company and its affiliated purchasers during the   



 first quarter of 2019.
27  



 Table of Contents  



 ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



   (1)    Includes 1,905 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock.
These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below.
(2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable.
(3)    Average price paid per share reflects the price of the Company’s Common Stock purchased on the open market.
(4)    On December 3, 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans.
The Company expects to purchase shares of its Common Stock from time to time in the market or otherwise subject to market conditions.
The Common Stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
28  



 Table of Contents  



 Item 6.
Exhibits  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 29  



 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 30
