 Item 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets  



 (Amounts in thousands, except share and per share amounts)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
3  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
4  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (loss)  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
5  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands, except share amounts)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
6  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  



 (Unaudited)  



 (Amounts in thousands)  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
7  



 Table of Contents  



 Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries  



 Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements  



 June 30, 2018  



 (Amounts in tables in thousands, except share and per share amounts)  



 1.
GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
For further information, refer to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No.
2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606 as discussed in Note 5.
Reclassifications  



 Certain reclassifications and immaterial revisions have been made to the prior period financial statements to conform to the current-year presentation.
Earnings per share two class method   



 Earnings per share for the six and three months ended June 30, 2017 were recalculated and restated using the two class method and presented on a comparable basis with the same periods in 2018.
In 2017 the Company determined it should be reporting earnings per share using the two-class method in accordance with ASC 260-10-45-60, which treats unvested restricted shares granted under our 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan that are entitled to receive non-forfeitable dividends as participating securities.
While the Company has determined the impact of applying the two-class method does not have a material impact on previously issued financial statements, it is appropriate to recalculate and restate amounts presented on a comparative and consistent basis with current period results.
The table below summarizes previously reported and restated amounts on a comparative basis.
Footnote 9, Earnings Per Share provides more detail on the two-class method calculation.
8  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 2.
Recently issued accounting standards:  



 In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, superseding the previous revenue recognition requirements, along with most existing industry-specific guidance.
In March, April, May and December 2016, the FASB issued additional updates to the new accounting standard which provide supplemental adoption guidance and clarifications.
The guidance requires an entity to review contracts in five steps: 1) identify the contract, 2) identify performance obligations, 3) determine the transaction price, 4) allocate the transaction price, and 5) recognize revenue in order to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2018, using the full retrospective method which required us to restate our historical financial information to reflect the adoption as of the earliest reporting period presented.
The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software and software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services.
See Footnote 5 (Revenue Recognition).
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02").
ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings.
This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018.
Early adoption is permitted.
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13").
ASU No.
2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded.
ASU No.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
9  



 Table of Contents  



 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
The new standard is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2018.
In accordance with this guidance, an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs.
The ASU is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2019.
Early adoption is permitted in fiscal 2018 with modified retrospective application.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.
This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP.
ASU No.
2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update.
The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.
This new guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted and must be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to periods in which the effects of the TCJA are recognized.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, “Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
118 (SEC Update), Income Taxes (Topic 740)”.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company has not recognized any material changes to the provisional amounts recorded in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with the 2017 Tax Act.
3.
The net sales from our foreign operations for the second quarter of 2018 were $4.5 million as compared to $4.7 million in the second quarter of 2017.
10  



 Table of Contents  



 4.
Revenue Recognition:  



 Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective method, which requires us to restate our historical financial information to reflect the adoption as of the earliest reporting period presented.
There was no adjustment to equity as a result of the adoption.
The most significant impact of adopting the standard relates to the determination of whether the Company is acting as a principal or an agent in the sale of third party security software and software that is highly interdependent with support, as well as maintenance, support and other services.
Historically, under the transfer of risk and rewards model of revenue recognition, the Company has accounted for primarily all of its sales on a gross basis.
The new guidance requires the Company to identify performance obligations and assess transfer of control.
While assessing its performance obligations for sales of security software and software subscriptions that are highly interdependent with support, the Company determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligations with the end customer that are not separately identifiable from the software itself.
The Company also determined that the vendor has ongoing performance obligation for sales of certain third-party maintenance, support and service contracts.
In these instances, the Company has determined that it does not have control and is acting as an agent in the sale.
When acting as an agent in a transaction, the Company accounts for sales on a net basis, with the vendor cost associated with the sale recognized as a reduction of revenue.
ASC 606 Adoption Impact to Previously Reported Results  



 The tables below present historical information adjusted as if the standard had been adopted on January 1, 2017 for all periods presented.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 The core principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
This principle is achieved through applying the following five-step approach:  



 11  



 Table of Contents  



 Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer — A contract with a customer exists when (i) we enter into an enforceable contract with a customer that defines each party’s rights regarding the goods or services to be transferred and identifies the payment terms related to these goods or services, (ii) the contract has commercial substance and, (iii) we determine that collection of substantially all consideration for goods or services that are transferred is probable based on the customer’s intent and ability to pay the promised consideration.
All revenue is generated from contracts with customers.
Identification of the performance obligations in the contract — Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods or services that will be transferred to the customer that are capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the goods or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the goods or services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract.
To the extent a contract includes multiple promised goods or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised goods or services are capable of being distinct in the context of the contract.
Determination of the transaction price —The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to the customer.
Net sales are recorded net of estimated discounts, rebates, and returns.
Vendor rebates and price protection are recorded when earned as a reduction to cost of sales or merchandise inventory, as applicable.
Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract — If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.
Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, basis.
We determine standalone SSP based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately.
If the standalone selling price is not observable through established standard prices, we use judgement and estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market pricing and pricing related to similar products.
Contracts with a significant financing component are discounted to their present value at contract inception and accreted up to the expected payment amounts.
These contracts generally offer customers extended payment terms of up to three years.
The Company considers the following indicators in determining when control passes to the customer: (i) the Company has a right to payment for the product or service (ii) the customer has legal title to the product, (iii) the Company has transferred physical possession of the product (iv) the Customer has the significant risk and rewards of ownership of the product and (v) the customer has accepted the product.
Finance fees related to sales are classified as interest income.
The following table depicts the disaggregation of revenue according to revenue type and is consistent with how we evaluate our financial performance:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 12  



 Table of Contents  



 Hardware and software product - Hardware product consists of sales of hardware manufactured by third parties.
Hardware product is delivered from our warehouse or drop shipped directly from the vendor.
Control is generally deemed to have passed to the customer upon transfer of title and risk of ownership.
Software product consists of sales of perpetual and term software licenses for products developed by third party vendors, which are distinct from related maintenance and support.
Software licenses are delivered via electronic license keys provided by the vendor to the end user.
Revenue from the sale of software products is recognized on a gross basis, with the selling price to the customer as net sales, and the cost of the related product as cost of sales, upon transfer of control to our customers as the Company is a principal in the transaction.
Software maintenance and support, commonly known as software assurance or post contract support, consists of software updates and technical support provided by the software vendor to the licensor over a period of time.
In cases where the software maintenance is distinct from the related software license, software maintenance is accounted for as a separate performance obligation.
In cases where the software maintenance is not distinct from the related software license, it is accounted for as a single performance obligation with the related license.
We utilize judgement in determining whether the maintenance is distinct from the software itself.
This involves considering if the software provides its original intended functionality without the updates, or is dependent on frequent, or continuous updates to maintain its functionality.
Software - security and highly interdependent with support - Software - security software and software highly interdependent with support consists of sales of security subscriptions and other licensed software products whose functionality is highly interdependent with, and therefore not distinct from, related software maintenance.
Delivery of the software license and related support over time is considered a single performance obligation of the third-party vendor for these products.
The Company is an agent in these transactions, with revenue being recorded on a net basis when its performance obligation of processing a valid order between the supplier and customer contracting for the services is complete.
Maintenance, support and other services revenue - Maintenance, support and other services revenue consists of third-party post-contract support that is not critical or essential to the core functionality of the related licensed software, and, to a lesser extent, from third-party professional services, software as a service, and cloud subscriptions.
Contract balances -Accounts receivable is recorded at the invoiced amount, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and returns.
A receivable is recognized in the period we deliver goods or provide services or when our right to consideration is unconditional.
Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30-75 days.
The balance of accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts and returns, as of December 31, 2017 and June 30, 2018 is presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Accounts receivable-long-term result from product sales with extended payment terms that are discounted to their present values at the Company’s estimates of prevailing market rates at the time of the sale.
The Company has determined that these amounts do not represent variable consideration as the amount earned is fixed.
In subsequent periods, the accounts receivable is increased to the amounts due and payable by the customers through the accretion of interest income on the unpaid accounts receivable due in future years.
The amounts due under these long-term accounts receivable due within one year are reclassified to the current portion of accounts receivable and are shown net of reserves.
Principal versus agent considerations – The Company determines whether it is acting as a principal or agent in a transaction by assessing whether it controls a good or service prior to it being transferred to a customer, with control being defined as having the ability to direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the asset.
The Company considers the following indicators, among others, in making the determination: 1) the Company is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the promised good or service, 2) the Company has inventory risk, before or after the specified good or service has been transferred to the customer, 3) the Company has discretion in establishing price for the specified good or service.
As we enter into distribution agreements with third-party service providers, we evaluate whether we are acting as a principal or agent for each product sold under the agreement based on the nature of the product or service, and our performance obligations.
Products for which there are significant ongoing third-party performance obligations include software maintenance, which includes periodic software updates and support, security software that is highly interdependent with maintenance, software as a service, cloud and third party professional services.
Sales where we are acting as an agent are recognized on a net basis at the date our performance obligations are complete.
6.
Fair Value:  



 The carrying amounts of financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term accounts receivable and accounts payable approximated fair value at June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 because of the relative short maturity of these instruments.
7.
Balance Sheet Detail:  



 Equipment and leasehold improvements consist of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recorded depreciation and amortization expense of $0.2 million and $0.2 million respectively, which is included in general and administrative expense.
Accounts receivable – long term, net consist of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 14  



 Table of Contents  



 Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 8.  Credit Facility:  



 On November 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $20,000 revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Citibank, N.A.
(“Citibank”) pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Note (the “Note”), Second Amended and Restated Security Agreement (the “Security Agreement”) and Second Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”).
The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any, fees, costs and expenses.
In addition, the Company will pay regular monthly payments of all accrued and unpaid interest.
The interest rate for any borrowings under the Credit Facility is subject to change from time to time based on the changes in the LIBOR Rate, as defined in the Loan Agreement (the “Index”).
The Index was 2.09% at June 30, 2018.
Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Note will be calculated using a rate of 1.50 percentage points over the Index.
If the Index becomes unavailable during the term of the Credit Facility, interest will be based upon the Prime Rate (as defined in the Loan Agreement) after notifying the Company.
The Credit Facility is secured by the assets of the Company.
Among other affirmative covenants set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Company must maintain (i) a minimum Debt Service Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of not less than 2.0 to 1.0, (ii) a maximum Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of at least 2.5 to 1.0, and (iii) a minimum Collateral Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Loan Agreement) of not less than 1.5 to 1.0.
Additionally, the Loan Agreement contains negative covenants prohibiting, among other things, the creation of certain liens, the alteration of the nature or character of the Company’s business, and transactions with the Company’s shareholders, directors, officers, subsidiaries and/or affiliates other than with respect to (i) the repurchase of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company from the stockholders of the Company or (ii) the declaration and payment of dividends to the stockholders of the Company.
At June 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility.
9.
Earnings Per Share:  



 Our basic and diluted earnings per share are computed using the two-class method.
The two-class method is an earnings allocation that determines net income per share for each class of common stock and participating securities according to their participation rights in dividends and undistributed earnings or losses.
Non-vested restricted stock awards that include non-forfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities.
Per share amounts are computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average shares outstanding during each period.
15  



 Table of Contents  



 A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted per share computations follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 10.
The Company had two major vendors that accounted for 26.6% and 14.1%, respectively, of total purchases during the six months ended June 30, 2017, and 22.0% and 14.9% of total purchases for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 22.0% and 17.1%, respectively, of its net sales during the six months ended June 30, 2018, and 18.4%, and 16.1% of total net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
These same customers accounted for 32.3% and 8.4% respectively, of total net accounts receivable as of June 30, 2018.
Two customers accounted for 28.6% and 15.1% of total net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017.
The Company had two major customers that accounted for 20.0% and 18.2%, respectively, of its total net sales during the six months ended June 30, 2017, and 21.0%, and 16.1% of total net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2017.
11.
The effective tax rate for the six and three months ended June 30, 2018 was 54.2% and (7.6%), compared to 32.0% for the same periods last year.
The Company recorded a $0.4 million tax benefit related to separation expenses during the three months ended June 30, 2018 which were accounted for as a discrete item, resulting in a 18% effective tax benefit rate on that item.
The effective tax rate for ordinary income was 24.1% for the three and six month ended June 30, 2018.
12.
Stockholders’ Equity and Stock Based Compensation:  



 The 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan (the “2012 Plan”) authorizes the grant of Stock Options, Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock, Stock Bonuses and other equity-based awards.
The total number of shares of Common Stock initially available for award under the 2012 Plan was 600,000 which was increased to 1,000,000 shares by shareholder approval at the Company’s 2018 Annual Meeting in June 2018.
During 2017, the Company granted a total of 87,076 shares of Restricted Stock to officers and employees.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between twelve and twenty equal quarterly installments.
In 2017, a total of 22,694 shares of Restricted Stock were forfeited as a result of officers and employees terminating employment with the Company.
During 2018, the Company granted a total of 95,500 shares of Restricted Stock to officers, employees and directors.
These shares of Restricted Stock vest between sixteen and twenty equal quarterly installments.
A summary of nonvested shares of Restricted Stock awards outstanding under the Company’s the 2012 Plan as of June 30, 2018, and changes during the six months then ended is as follows:  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 As of June 30, 2018, there is approximately $1.6 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements.
The unrecognized compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.
For the six months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017, the Company recognized share-based compensation cost of $2.4 million and $0.7 million respectively.
During the three and six months ended June 30, 2018, $1.7 million of stock compensation expense, related to accelerated vesting of shares upon the resignation of the Company’s former Chief Executive Officer, was included in separation expense.
All other share-based compensation is included in selling, general and administrative expenses.
13.
The internal organization used by the public company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) to assess performance and allocate 



 17  



 Table of Contents  



resources determines the basis for reportable operating segments.
The Company’s CODM is the Interim Chief Executive Officer.
The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments.
The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide.
The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the United States and Canada.
As permitted by FASB ASC Topic 280, the Company has utilized the aggregation criteria in combining its operations in Canada with the domestic segments as the Canadian operations provide the same products and services to similar clients and are considered together when the Company’s CODM decides how to allocate resources.
The Company only identifies accounts receivable and inventory by segment as shown below as “Selected Assets” by segment; it does not allocate its other assets, including capital expenditures by segment.
The following segment reporting information of the Company is provided:   



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 18  



 Table of Contents  



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 



 14.
Separation charges:  



 On May 11, 2018, the Company entered into a Separation and Release Agreement (the “Separation Agreement”) with Simon Nynens upon his resignation from the Company.
The Separation Agreement supersedes and replaces the Employment Agreement, dated January 12, 2006, between Mr. Nynens and the Company.
Mr. Nynens is entitled to receive (a) a cash payment of $0.7 million, payable in 12 consecutive, equal monthly installments on the fifteenth day of each month, commencing June 15, 2018; provided that the monthly payments will be delayed until the earlier to occur of Mr. Nynens’ death or November 19, 2018 (the “Delay Period”), and upon the expiration of the Delay Period, all payments that were delayed will be paid in a lump sum, (b) a one-time, lump sum cash payment of $0.03 million (Mr. Nynens current monthly salary) payable within 30 days after the Separation Date so long as Mr. Nynens performs certain transition services to the extent reasonably requested by the Company; and (c) payment of accrued vacation equal to $0.04 million, (ii) all stock options and stock awards issued to Mr. Nynens, consisting solely of 109,084 shares of restricted common stock issued under the 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan, will fully vest and become immediately exercisable and remain exercisable through their original terms.
The Company recorded expenses of $2.4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 related to the Separation Agreement consisting of $1.7 million for accelerated vesting of restricted stock grants and $0.8 million in other cash payments to be made over during the next twelve months.
19  



 Table of Contents
