Interest Rate Risk
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which consists of fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $3.29 billion as of December 30, 2017, and to our interest rate swap contracts in relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes (as our interest rate swap contracts carry a variable interest rate based on LIBOR plus a spread). These investments include mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, bank loans, debt mutual funds and commercial mortgage-backed securities. Our primary aim with our investment portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and meeting liquidity needs. In accordance with our investment policy, we place investments with high credit quality issuers and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. A hypothetical 100 basis-point (one percentage point) increase or decrease in interest rates compared to rates at December 30, 2017 would have affected the fair value of our investment portfolio by approximately $55.0 million.
Credit Market Risk
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk
Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars.
Gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained and the hedged relationship has been effective, are deferred and included in income or expenses in the same period that the underlying transaction is settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the above criteria are recognized in income or expenses in the condensed consolidated statements of income as they are incurred.
We enter into forward currency exchange contracts to hedge our overseas operating expenses and other liabilities when deemed appropriate. As of December 30, 2017 and April 1, 2017, we had the following outstanding forward currency exchange contracts (in notional amount):
