Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin.
Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long-lived assets, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; and accounting for business combinations, which impacts the valuation of tangible and intangible assets recognized and liabilities assumed.
For more discussion please refer to "Item 7.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I.
"Financial Information."
Results of Operations: first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019 



The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net Revenues



We sell our products to global manufacturers of electronic products in various end markets.
We classify our product offerings into two categories: Advanced Products and Core Products:



•Advanced Products include our most recent product offerings and consist of the UltraScale+, UltraScale and 7-series product families and our Alveo boards products.
24

•Core Products consist of all other product families.
The most recent modification was made on April 3, 2016, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2017, whereby we reclassified our product categories to be consistent with how these categories are analyzed and reviewed internally.
Specifically, we are grouping the products manufactured at the 28 nanometer (nm), 20nm and 16nm nodes into the Advanced Products category while all other products are grouped in the Core Products category.
Except for Avnet, no other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 or 2019.
Net Revenues by Product



Net revenues by product categories for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net revenues from Advanced Products increased in the first three months of fiscal 2020 compared to the comparable prior year period.
Net revenues from Core Products decreased in the first three months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
Net Revenues by End Markets



Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers’ primary markets, which is based on reports provided by distributors and our internal records.
The Channel Revenue represents the difference between the shipments to distributors and what the distributors subsequently sold to the end customers within the same period.
The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year-to-year dollar change in each end market.
Net revenues by end markets for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net revenues from AIT increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from Test, Measurement & Emulation and Industrial businesses.
25

Net revenues from Automotive, Broadcast and Consumer increased, in terms of absolute dollar, in the first three months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was due to higher sales from all sub-segments, in particular from consumer business.
Net revenues from Wired and Wireless increased in the first three months of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from wireless business driven by the initial deployment ramp of 5G wireless networks, and to a lesser extent higher sales from wireline business.
Net revenues from Data Center decreased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The decrease was driven by lower sales from China region.
Channel Revenue was slightly negative in the first three months of fiscal 2020 as shipments to distributors were lower than what the distributors subsequently shipped to the end customers in the period.
Net Revenues by Geography



Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or contract manufacturers who purchased our products.
This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers.
Net revenues by geography for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Net revenues in North America increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from test, measurement & emulation business.
Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from wireless business, driven by the initial deployment ramp of 5G wireless networks.
Net revenues in Europe increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from wireless, and to a lesser extent, AIT businesses.
Net revenues in Japan increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily due to higher sales from industrial business.
Gross Margin 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Gross margin was lower by 3.6 percentage points in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
However, continuing growth in wireless business driven by the accelerated global deployment ramp of 5G wireless networks would negatively impact gross margin in the future.
Research and Development



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Research and development (R&D) spending increased by $33.3 million, or 19%, for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period.
The increase was primarily attributable to increase in headcount and employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), as well as higher mask and wafer spending, related to our continuing new products development.
We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and software development environments.
We may also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas.
Selling, General and Administrative



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $16.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 from the comparable prior year period as we incurred higher employee compensation (including stock-based compensation) due primarily to increased headcount, as well as higher expenses related to merger and acquisition activities.
Stock-Based Compensation



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The 20% increase in stock-based compensation expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 as compared to the prior year period was primarily related to higher expenses associated with RSUs to remain competitive in compensation, as we granted RSUs at a higher fair value than in the prior years.
27

Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Our net interest and other income (expense) was a net income of $11.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, as compared to a net expense of $2.8 million in the same prior year period.
The net increase was due primarily to gains on the sale of an investment during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
On July 27, 2015, the United States Tax Court (Tax Court) issued its opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, and, in a 15-0 decision, concluded that related parties in a cost sharing arrangement are not required to share expenses related to stock-based compensation.
The Commissioner appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit).
The Ninth Circuit overturned the Tax Court’s decision in an opinion issued on July 24, 2018, but subsequently withdrew it.
After rehearing the arguments on October 16, 2018, the Ninth Circuit issued a subsequent opinion on June 7, 2019.
In a 2-1 decision, the Ninth Circuit overturned the Tax Court’s decision.
On July 22, 2019, Altera filed a petition for an en banc rehearing with the Ninth Circuit, which will consist of a panel of 11 judges.
In the case of a denial of a Ninth Circuit en banc rehearing or a decision against Altera following an en banc rehearing, Altera can appeal to the United States Supreme Court for review.
Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources



We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity, as well as debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital.
The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments as of June 29, 2019 and March 30, 2019 totaled $2.94 billion and $3.23 billion, respectively.
As of June 29, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.88 billion and working capital of $3.09 billion.
As of March 30, 2019, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $3.18 billion and working capital was $3.42 billion.
As of June 29, 2019, we had $1.83 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held in our non-U.S. jurisdictions.
Operating Activities —During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, our operations generated net positive cash flow of $298.2 million, which was $122.0 million higher than the $176.2 million generated during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The positive cash flow 



28

from operations generated during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, decrease in accounts receivable and increase in income tax payable.
These items were partially offset by increases in inventories and other assets and a decrease in accrued liabilities.
Accounts receivable decreased by $29.2 million and days sales outstanding decreased to 33 days at June 29, 2019 from 40 days at March 30, 2019.
Our inventory levels as of June 29, 2019 were $21.4 million higher at $336.8 million compared to $315.4 million at March 30, 2019, but the inventory days decreased to 107 days at June 29, 2019 from 120 days at March 30, 2019.
Investing Activities —Net cash provided by investing activities was $295.3 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, as compared to $444.2 million used in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Net cash provided by investing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 consisted primarily of $346.1 million of net proceeds from sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities, which was offset by $29.2 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment and software and acquisition of business net of cash acquired of $25.1 million.
Financing Activities —Net cash used in financing activities was $548.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, as compared to $233.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Net cash used in financing activities during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 consisted primarily of $445.0 million of cash payment (See "Note 11.
Common Stock Repurchase Program" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I.
"Financial Information,") to repurchase shares of common stock, $94.0 million dividend payments to stockholders, $4.9 million payment related to other financing activities and $4.1 million of payment for RSU withholdings.
Contractual Obligations



We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through August 2029.
See "Note 15.
Commitments" to our condensed consolidated financial statements, included in Part I.
"Financial Information," for a schedule of our operating lease commitments as of June 29, 2019 and additional information about operating leases.
Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services.
The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed.
As of June 29, 2019, we had $197.4 million of outstanding inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations to subcontractors.
We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications.
As of June 29, 2019, we also had $2.9 million of non-cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/software, $15.4 million related to renovation of two of its properties and $36.1 million commitments primarily related to open purchase orders from ordinary operations.
These commitments expire at various dates through June 2023.
Of the $514.3 million, $477.6 million was the estimated long-term portion of the one-time transition tax that resulted from the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), which will be payable in eight annual installments.
The remaining $36.7 million of the long-term income taxes payable is for uncertain tax positions and related interest and penalties.
Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with such liabilities, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities.
Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements



As of June 29, 2019, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.
Liquidity and Capital Resources



Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources.
Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $400.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in December 2016 (expiring in December 2021).
We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the revolving credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.
Our revolving credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank.
There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we repurchased 1.4 million shares of common stock in the open market for a total of $145.0 million.
Additionally, we entered into a stock repurchase agreement with an independent financial institution to repurchase shares 



29

under the 2018 Repurchase Program, whereby we provided the financial institution with an up-front payment totaling $300.0 million and the financial institution agreed to deliver to us a certain number of shares based upon the volume weighted-average price, during an averaging period, less a specified discount.
Under this arrangement, we received an initial 1.6 million shares of common stock during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 for $168.1 million (estimated based on volume-weighted average price up to June 29, 2019).
The initial shares received by us were retired, accounted for as a reduction to stockholders' equity in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and treated as a repurchase of common stock for purposes of calculating earnings per share.
We expect to receive additional shares and a portion of the remaining estimated $131.9 million back during the next quarter.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we repurchased 2.1 million shares of common stock for a total of $136.8 million.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we paid $94.0 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $0.37 per common share.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we paid $90.7 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing $0.36 per common share.
On July 23, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share for the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
The dividend is payable on August 27, 2019 to stockholders of record on August 7, 2019.
We anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future.
However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A included in Part II.
