Item 1.Financial Statements



XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
Please refer to "Note 2.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
3

XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
Please refer to "Note 2.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
4

XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
Please refer to "Note 2.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
5

XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
Please refer to "Note 2.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
6

XILINX, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 1.Basis of Presentation



The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X, and should be read in conjunction with the Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) consolidated financial statements filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31.
Fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are both 52-week years ending on March 30, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
The quarters ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 each consisted of 13 weeks.
The authoritative guidance provides a five-step process for recognizing revenue that depicts the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled, in exchange for those goods or services.
The new guidance is required to be applied retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (Full Retrospective), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying it recognized at the date of initial application.
The Company adopted the new guidance on April 1, 2018, using the Full Retrospective method and restated the comparative prior periods.
The Company implemented internal controls and certain system functionality to enable the preparation of financial information on adoption.
Revenue from software license agreements, software license renewals, and other contracts are recognized at point of sales, whereas previously these were deferred and recognized over the contractual term before the implementation of the authoritative guidance.
Revenue recognition related to the Company's other revenue streams, such as direct customers, remains unchanged.
The authoritative guidance does not change the guidance for classifying and measuring investments in debt securities and loans.
The authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within those annual periods.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance on April 1, 2018 and recorded the balance of the unrealized losses of $11.0 million as of the end of fiscal 2018 from its investment in debt mutual funds and equity securities to retained earnings, less the related deferred taxes of $2.6 million.
Subsequent changes in fair value from such investments are recorded in the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017 and requires the adoption be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance on April 1, 2018.
Accordingly, $13.8 million of prepaid taxes associated with prior period intra-entity asset transfers was reclassified to retained earnings.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted



Leases



In February 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on leases.
The new authoritative guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Even though early adoption is permitted, Xilinx has decided not to early adopt such authoritative guidance.
This authoritative guidance must be adopted using a modified retrospective transition with application of the new authoritative guidance for leases that existed at or are entered after the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented.
To help with the transition to the new guidance, certain practical expedients are provided.
On July 30, 2018, the FASB provided entities with an additional (and optional) transition method to adopt the new lease requirements by allowing entities to initially apply the requirements by recognizing a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
Consequently, an entity’s reporting for the comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the entity adopts the new lease requirements would continue to be in accordance with current GAAP.
An entity electing this additional (and optional) transition method must provide the required disclosures for all periods that continue to be in accordance with current GAAP.
The amendments do not change the existing disclosure requirements in current GAAP.
The amendments have the same effective date as the new leases standard, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company plans to adopt the new standard using the optional adoption method and apply the guidance to leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the period of adoption, as well as certain practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance.
Cloud Computing Arrangements



On August 29, 2018, the FASB issued new guidance requiring a customer in a cloud computing arrangement (i.e., hosting arrangement) that is a service contract to follow the internal-use software guidance to determine which implementation costs to capitalize as assets or expense as incurred.
Capitalized implementation costs related to a hosting arrangement that is a service contract will be amortized over the term of the hosting arrangement, beginning when the module or component of the hosting arrangement is ready for its intended use.
Entities will need to maintain appropriate records to capture the portion of their costs that qualify for capitalization.
For public entities, the guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for Xilinx would be the first quarter of fiscal 2021.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period.
Entities have the option to apply the guidance prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption or retrospectively.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new authoritative guidance on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
Note 3.Significant Customers and Concentrations of Credit Risk



Avnet, Inc. (Avnet), one of the Company’s distributors, distributes the Company’s products worldwide.
As of December 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018, Avnet accounted for 40% and 61% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable, respectively.
The Company expects its accounts receivable to fluctuate as the Company partners with its distributors to manage their inventory requirements.
Xilinx is subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily in its trade accounts receivable and investments in debt securities to the extent of the amounts recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms, distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion of sales.
No end customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018.
The Company mitigates concentrations of credit risk in its investments in debt securities by currently investing approximately 93% of its portfolio in AA (or its equivalent) or higher grade securities as rated by Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s Investors Service.
The Company’s methods to arrive at investment decisions are not solely based on the rating agencies’ credit ratings.
Xilinx also performs additional credit due diligence and conducts regular portfolio credit reviews, including a review of counterparty credit risk related to the Company’s forward currency exchange and interest rate swap contracts.
Additionally, Xilinx limits its investments in the debt securities of a single issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating and attempts to further mitigate credit risk by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer.
As of December 29, 2018, approximately 20% of the portfolio consisted of mortgage-backed securities.
Note 4.Fair Value Measurements



The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements established by the FASB defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which Xilinx would transact.
The Company primarily uses a consensus price or weighted-average price for its fair value assessment.
For certain securities with short maturities, such as discount commercial paper and certificates of deposit, the security is accreted from purchase price to face value at maturity.
If a subsequent transaction on the same security is observed in the marketplace, the price on the subsequent transaction is used as the current daily market price and the security will be accreted to face value based on the revised price.
There have not been any changes to the Company’s fair value methodology during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 and the Company did not adjust or override any fair value measurements as of December 29, 2018.
Fair Value Hierarchy



The fair value framework requires the categorization of assets and liabilities into three levels based upon the assumptions (inputs) used to price the assets or liabilities.
The Company’s Level 1 assets consist of U.S. government securities, money market funds and marketable equity securities.
10

Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities also include foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts.
The Company has no Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



In instances where the inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the fair value measurement has been determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular item to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, including the consideration of inputs specific to the asset or liability.
The following tables present information about the Company’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018:



11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



12

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash held in banks, accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities, and are therefore excluded from the fair value tables above.
Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



The Company's $500.0 million principal amount of 2.125% notes due March 15, 2019 (2019 Notes), $500.0 million principal amount of 3.000% notes due March 15, 2021 (2021 Notes) and $750.0 million principal amount of 2.950% senior notes due June 1, 2024 (2024 Notes) are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes.
The fair values of the 2019 Notes, 2021 Notes and 2024 Notes as of December 29, 2018 were approximately $498.7 million, $498.0 million and $716.0 million, respectively, based on the last trading price for the period (classified as Level 2 in fair value hierarchy due to relatively low trading volume).
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis 



As of December 29, 2018, the Company had non-marketable equity securities in private companies of $61.0 million, which were classified as Level 3 assets.
The Company’s investments in non-financial assets such as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, are recorded at fair value only if the Company recognizes an impairment.
The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are also recorded at fair value if the Company recognizes an observable price adjustment or an impairment.
Substantially all time deposits were issued by institutions outside the U.S. as of December 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018.
The gross unrealized losses that had been outstanding for more than twelve months were primarily related to mortgage-backed securities, which was primarily due to the general rising of the interest-rate environment.
Starting April 1, 2018, the Company records the change in the fair value of its investment in debt mutual funds and marketable equity securities as part of its interest and other income, net.
The marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities) are highly rated by the credit rating agencies, there have been no defaults on any of these securities and the company has received interest payments as they become due.
Therefore, the Company believes that it will be able to collect both principal and interest amount due to the Company.
Additionally, in the past several years a portion of the Company's investment in the mortgage-backed securities was redeemed or prepaid by the debtors at par.
The Company neither intends to sell the marketable debt securities nor concludes that it is more-likely-than-not that it will have to sell them until recovery of their carrying values.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of marketable debt securities by contractual maturity, are shown in the table below.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of December 29, 2018, $947.4 million of marketable debt securities with contractual maturities of greater than one year were classified as short-term investments.
15

Certain information related to available-for-sale securities is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The cost of securities matured or sold is based on the specific identification method.
Note 6.Derivative Financial Instruments



The Company’s primary objective for holding derivative financial instruments is to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.
As a result of the use of derivative financial instruments, the Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts may fail to meet their contractual obligations.
The Company manages counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts by reviewing counterparty creditworthiness on a regular basis, establishing collateral requirement and limiting exposure to any single counterparty.
The right of set-off that exists with certain transactions enables the Company to net amounts due to and from the counterparty, reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.
The Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions to manage interest rate risks related to fixed interest rate expenses from its 2024 Notes and floating interest rate income from its investments in marketable debt securities.
See “Note 10.
Debt and Credit Facility” for more discussion related to interest rate swap contracts.
The interest rate swap contracts were designated and qualified as fair value hedges of the 2024 Notes and were separately accounted for as a derivative.
The interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes were initially measured at fair value.
During the nine months ended December 29, 2018, the net change in fair values of the interest rate swap contracts and the underlying 2024 Notes was $5.9 million, which was recorded as a derivative liability for the interest rate swap contacts and as a reduction from the carrying amount of the 2024 Notes.
There was no ineffectiveness during all periods presented.
Note 7.
Stock-Based Compensation Plans



The Company’s equity incentive plans are broad-based, long-term retention programs that cover employees, consultants and non-employee directors of the Company.
These plans are intended to attract and retain talented employees, consultants and non-employee directors and to provide such persons with a proprietary interest in the Company.
Stock-Based Compensation



The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to stock awards granted under the Company’s equity incentive plans and rights to acquire stock granted under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP):



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



16

Employee Stock Option Plans



The types of awards allowed under the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (2007 Equity Plan) include incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), restricted stock and stock appreciation rights.
To date, the Company has issued a mix of non-qualified stock options and RSUs under the 2007 Equity Plan; however, there was no issuance of stock options during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and the entire fiscal 2018.
The Company's stock-based compensation expenses related to options during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and the number of options outstanding as of December 29, 2018 were not material.
On August 1, 2018, the stockholders approved an amendment to increase the authorized number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2007 Equity Plan by 3.0 million shares.
As of December 29, 2018, 11.5 million shares remained available for grant under the 2007 Equity Plan.
RSU Awards



A summary of the Company’s RSU activity and related information is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The estimated fair values of RSUs were calculated based on the market price of Xilinx common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on Xilinx common stock prior to vesting.
The per share weighted-average fair value of RSUs granted during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 was $75.72 ($67.40 for the third quarter of fiscal 2018), and for the first nine months of fiscal 2019 was $64.21 ($60.36 for the first nine months of fiscal 2018), which were calculated based on estimates at the date of grant using the following weighted-average assumptions: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSU awards vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that the Company pays in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of the Company's employees.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, the Company withheld $42.0 million and $44.4 million worth of RSU awards, respectively, to satisfy the employees’ tax obligations.
During the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $1.5 million 



and $10.2 million, respectively, primarily from RSU vesting.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $17.5 million.
Employees purchased 359 thousand shares for $18.0 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and 355 thousand shares for $16.9 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2018.
The per-share weighted-average fair value of stock purchase rights granted under the ESPP during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and 2018 was $19.06 and $16.46, respectively.
The fair values of stock purchase plan rights granted in the second quarter of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 were estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model at the date of grant using the following assumptions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The next scheduled purchase under the ESPP is in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
On August 1, 2018, the stockholders approved an amendment to increase the authorized number of shares reserved for issuance under the ESPP by 3.0 million shares.
As of December 29, 2018, 12.0 million shares were available for future issuance under the ESPP.
Note 8.
Net Income Per Common Share



The computation of basic net income per common share for all periods presented is derived from information on the condensed consolidated statements of income, and there are no reconciling items in the numerator used to compute the diluted net income per common share.
The following table summarizes the computation of basic and diluted net income per common share:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[1] Prior year balances have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the new revenue recognition accounting standard.
Please refer to "Note 2.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements."
The total shares used in the denominator of the diluted net income per common share calculation include potentially dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding that are not included in basic net income per common share calculation.
The diluted shares were calculated by applying the treasury stock method to the impact of the equity incentive plans, the incremental shares issuable assuming conversion of the Company's $600.0 million principal amount of 2.625% convertible notes issued in June 2010 (2017 Convertible Notes), before its maturity on June 15, 2017, and exercise of warrants on a weighted-average outstanding basis, before the final settlements during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
The 2017 Convertible Notes matured during the first quarter of fiscal 2018, and the Company exercised its call options to neutralize the dilutive effect of the incremental shares from the 2017 Convertible Notes.
Because the number of diluted shares in the above table for the nine months ended December 30, 2017 was calculated based on a weighted-average outstanding basis, it included approximately 2.0 million shares of dilutive impact from the 2017 Convertible Notes through the maturity date and 5.5 million shares of dilutive impact from warrants before the settlement.
Such impact will no longer be applicable in future periods.
Outstanding stock options and RSUs under the Company's stock award plans to purchase approximately 0 and 2,700 shares for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, were excluded from the diluted net income per common share calculation by applying the treasury stock method, as their inclusion would have been antidilutive.
18

Note 9.Inventories



Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method), or market (estimated net realizable value) and are comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 10.
Debt and Credit Facility



2019 Notes and 2021 Notes



On March 12, 2014, the Company issued the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes at a discounted price of 99.477% and 99.281% of par, respectively.
Interest on the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15.
The Company received net proceeds of $990.1 million from issuance of the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs.
As of December 29, 2018, the remaining term of the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes are 0.2 years and 2.2 years respectively.
The following table summarizes the carrying value of the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes as of December 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest expense related to the 2019 Notes and 2021 Notes was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2024 Notes



19

On May 30, 2017, the Company issued the $750.0 million principal amount of 2.950% senior notes due June 1, 2024 (2024 Notes) at a discounted price of 99.887% of par.
Interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1.
The Company received $745.2 million from the issuance of the 2024 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs.
As of December 29, 2018, the remaining term of the 2024 Notes is approximately 5.5 years.
In relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions, whereby the Company pays on a semi-annual basis, a variable interest rate equal to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 91.43 bps, and receives on a semi-annual basis, interest income at a fixed interest rate of 2.950%.
The Company incurred a net interest expense of $939 thousand and $2.4 million for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2018, respectively, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Net interest income of $1.3 million and $3.4 million was earned on the contracts for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2017, respectively.
The following table summarizes the carrying value of the 2024 Notes as of December 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest expense related to the 2024 Notes was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Revolving Credit Facility



On December 7, 2016, the Company entered into a $400.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that, upon certain conditions, may be extended by an additional $150.0 million, with a syndicate of banks (expiring in December 2021).
Borrowings under the credit facility will bear interest at a benchmark rate plus an applicable margin based upon the Company’s credit rating.
In connection with the credit facility, the Company is required to maintain certain financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of December 29, 2018, the Company had made no borrowings under this credit facility and was not in violation of any of the covenants.
Note 11.
Common Stock Repurchase Program



The Board of Directors (Board) has approved stock repurchase programs enabling the Company to repurchase its common stock in the open market or through negotiated transactions with independent financial institutions.
On May 16, 2016, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to $1.00 billion of the Company's common stock and debentures (2016 Repurchase Program).
The 2016 Repurchase Program has no stated expiration date.
On May 16, 2018, the Board authorized the 2018 Repurchase Program to repurchase the Company's common stock and debentures up to $500.0 million (2018 Repurchase Program).
20

Through December 29, 2018, the Company had used $953.7 million of the $1.00 billion authorized under the 2016 Repurchase Program, leaving $46.3 million available for future repurchases.
The Company has not used any of the amount authorized under the 2018 Repurchase Program.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased 2.4 million shares of common stock in the open market with independent financial institutions for a total of $161.6 million and during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, the Company repurchased 4.7 million shares of common stock in the open market and through accelerated share repurchase agreements with an independent financial institution for a total of $310.8 million.
Note 12.
Note 14.
The Company recorded tax provisions of $179.3 million and $213.2 million for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2018, respectively, representing effective tax rates of 107.5% and 40.1%, respectively.
The prior year amounts have been restated to reflect the retrospective application of the current authoritative guidance for revenue recognition.
Refer to "Note 2.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements" for additional detail.
21

Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 118 allowed companies to record provisional amounts and recognize the effect of the tax law changes during a measurement period.
The measurement period ended in the third quarter of fiscal 2019.
Rather than treating the impact of taxes due on GILTI inclusions as a current-period expense when incurred, the Company elected to recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences that are expected to reverse in future years.
As a result, a measurement period adjustment was made to recognize deferred tax assets in the amount of $6.9 million.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company did not make any other adjustments to the provisional estimates recorded in prior periods.
Although the measurement period has closed, further technical guidance related to the TCJA, including final regulations on a broad range of topics, is expected to be issued.
In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 740, the Company will recognize any effects of the guidance in the period that such guidance is issued.
The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019, determined in accordance with FASB authoritative guidance for measuring uncertain tax positions, increased by an immaterial amount to $126.7 million.
The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if realized in a future period, would favorably affect the effective tax rate was $16.6 million as of December 29, 2018.
Another $85.5 million would increase additional paid-in capital.
The $85.5 million relates to an additional deduction claimed on federal and state amended tax returns for fiscal 2014 for repurchase premium paid in that year in connection with the early redemption of the Company’s 3.125% Junior Convertible debenture due March 15, 2037.
Note 15.
Commitments



Xilinx leases some of its facilities and office buildings under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through April 2029.
Additionally, Xilinx entered into a land lease in conjunction with the Company’s building in Singapore, which will expire in November 2035 and the lease cost was settled in an up-front payment in June 2006.
Some of the operating leases for facilities and office buildings require payment of operating costs, including property taxes, repairs, maintenance and insurance.
Most of the Company’s leases contain renewal options for varying terms.
Xilinx also leases cars under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through May 2022.
Approximate future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



22

Aggregate future rental income to be received, which includes rents from both owned and leased property, totaled $10.0 million as of December 29, 2018.
Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was $1.3 million and $3.1 million for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2018, respectively.
Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was $900 thousand and $3.0 million for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2017, respectively.
Rental income was not material for the third quarter and the first nine months of fiscal 2019 or 2018.
Other commitments as of December 29, 2018 totaled $213.3 million and consisted of purchases of inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations related to subcontractors that manufacture silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services.
The Company expects to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications.
Additionally, as of December 29, 2018, the Company also had $10.4 million of non-cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/software maintenance, $13.1 million related to renovation of two of its properties and $34.1 million commitments primarily related to open purchase orders from ordinary operations.
These commitments expire at various dates through December 2022.
Note 16.
Product Warranty and Indemnification



The Company generally sells products with a limited warranty for product quality.
As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and the end of fiscal 2018, the accrual balances of the product warranty liability were immaterial.
The terms and conditions of these indemnity obligations are limited by contract, which obligations are typically perpetual from the effective date of the agreement.
The Company has historically received only a limited number of requests for indemnification under these provisions and has not made any significant payments pursuant to these provisions.
Note 17.
No.
2:17-cv-00100).
On September 14, 2017, the court granted the Company’s motion to transfer venue to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.
On March 17, 2017, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed by Anza Technology, Inc. (Anza) against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the District of Colorado (Anza Technology, Inc. v. Xilinx, Inc., Case No.
1:17-cv-00687).
On October 27, 2017, the court granted the Company’s motion to transfer venue to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.
The parties reached an agreement to settle the lawsuit and it was dismissed with prejudice on July 23, 2018.
The Company intends to continue to protect and defend its IP vigorously.
Other Matters



On June 11, 2015, John P. Neblett, as Chapter 7 Trustee of Valley Forge Composite Technologies, Inc., filed a complaint against Xilinx and others in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania (Bankruptcy No.
1:13-bk-05253-JJT).
On September 21, 2015, the action was withdrawn from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania and transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky.
On November 2, 2015, Xilinx, along with other defendants, filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
On November 3, 2015, Xilinx filed a motion for sanctions pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11.
On June 27, 2016, the Court denied both motions.
On September 11, 2017, Xilinx, along with other defendants, filed motions for summary judgment seeking to dispose of all claims against them.
On July 3, 2018, the Court granted both of Xilinx’s Motions for Summary Judgment, disposing of all claims asserted against Xilinx.
On August 1, 2018, the Trustee filed a Notice of Appeal.
On August 9, 2018, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued an Order to Show Cause requesting that the appellant address a possible jurisdictional defect.
On August 29, 2018, the appellant responded to the Order to Show Cause.
On September 10, 2018, the appellees, including Xilinx, filed a joint reply.
On January 7, 2019, the Court of Appeals issued an order dismissing the appeal for lack of jurisdiction.
Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each matter and assesses its potential financial exposure.
Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time.
24

Note 18.
Goodwill and Acquisition-Related Intangibles



As of December 29, 2018 and March 31, 2018, the gross and net amounts of goodwill and of acquisition-related intangibles for all acquisitions were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Amortization expense for acquisition-related intangibles for the three and nine months ended December 29, 2018 was $1.9 million and $3.1 million, respectively.
Amortization expense for acquisition-related intangibles for the three and nine months ended December 30, 2017 was $353 thousand and $1.6 million, respectively.
During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company recorded $178.3 million of goodwill and $81.5 million of intangibles attributable to the acquisition of Deephi Technology Co., Ltd (Deephi Tech).
Based on the carrying value of acquisition-related intangibles recorded as of December 29, 2018, assuming no subsequent acquisition or impairment of the underlying assets, the annual amortization expense for acquisition-related intangibles is expected to be as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In-process research and development are not subject to amortization prior to the completion of the projects and therefore the balance is excluded from the above annual amortization expense schedule.
Note 19.Business Combination



During the second quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Deephi Tech by acquiring all its outstanding ordinary shares.
Deephi Tech was a privately held start-up with industry-leading capabilities in machine learning and focusing on system-level neural network optimization.
Total purchase consideration to acquire Deephi Tech was $251.9 million, including $11.5 million of fair value from the Company's preexisting investment in Deephi Tech, $200 thousand of unsettled payments to Deephi Tech equity holders and $6.3 million of cash acquired.
Additionally, the Company was required to assess the fair value of its preexisting 



25

investment in Deephi Tech and recorded $6.5 million gain in its condensed consolidated statements of income as part of interest and other income, net.
Subsequent to the acquisition, the financial results for Deephi Tech are included in the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements.
Prior to the acquisition, the financial results for Deephi Tech were not significant for pro forma financial information.
The company allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values.
As additional information becomes available, the company may further update the preliminary purchase price allocation during the remainder of the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date).
The preliminary fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Deephi Tech, by major class, were recognized as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The goodwill of $178.3 million arising from the acquisition is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits that will be generated from the combination of the Company and Deephi Tech.
The identified intangible assets assumed in the acquisition of Deephi Tech were recognized as follows based upon the preliminary fair values as of the closing date of the acquisition.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 20.
Subsequent Events



On January 22, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.36 per common share for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019.
The dividend is payable on February 21, 2019 to stockholders of record on February 6, 2019.
26
