Item 1.Financial Statements



XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
3

XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
4

XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
5

XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
6

XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



7

XILINX, INC.



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



(Unaudited)



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
8

XILINX, INC.



NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(Unaudited)



Note 1.
The interim financial statements are unaudited, but reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, of a normal, recurring nature necessary to provide a fair statement of results for the interim periods presented.
The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March 31.
Fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 are both 52-week years ending on March 28, 2020 and March 30, 2019, respectively.
The quarters ended September 28, 2019 and September 29, 2018 each consisted of 13 weeks.
Note 2.
Recent Accounting Changes and Accounting Pronouncements



Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted



Leases



In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance on leases.
The Company adopted this authoritative guidance using modified retrospective method during first quarter of fiscal 2020 and resulted in the recognition of right-of-use assets of approximately $50.0 million and lease liabilities for operating leases of approximately $50.0 million on March 31, 2019, the beginning of fiscal 2020.
The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease, or contains a lease, at the inception of the arrangement.
On the commencement date, leases are evaluated for classification, and assets and liabilities are recognized based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
The Company uses the incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement in determining the present value of lease payments.
Operating lease expense is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Company has elected the practical expedients to not separate lease and non-lease components within lease transactions, and not to record on the balance sheet leases with a term of 12 months or less.
The Company also has elected the package of practical expedients, which allows the Company not to reassess (1) whether any expired or existing contracts as of the adoption date are or contain a lease, (2) lease classification for any expired or existing leases as of the adoption date and (3) initial direct costs for any existing leases as of the adoption date.
The Company did not elect to apply the hindsight practical expedient when determining lease term and assessing impairment of right-of-use assets.
The Company recognizes its operating leases within its other assets, other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company's finance leases were immaterial.
Note 3.
Significant Customers and Concentrations of Credit Risk



Avnet, Inc. (Avnet), one of the Company’s distributors, distributes the Company’s products worldwide.
As of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019, Avnet accounted for 35% and 37% of the Company’s total net accounts receivable, respectively.
Net revenues from Avnet accounted for 40% and 40% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively.
Net revenues from Avnet accounted for 46% and 49% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively.
While the percentage of worldwide net revenues from Avnet fluctuates from period to period, overall the percentage is within historical ranges.
For the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, approximately 49% and 49%, respectively, of the Company's net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) or their subcontract manufacturers.
For the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019 the percentages of the Company's net revenues from distributors were 56% and 60%, respectively.
9

Xilinx is subject to concentrations of credit risk primarily in its trade accounts receivable and investments in debt securities to the extent of the amounts recorded on the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade receivables through its credit evaluation process, collection terms, distributor sales to diverse end customers and through geographical dispersion of sales.
No other distributor accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019.
One end customer accounted for 12% and 10% of the Company's worldwide net revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, respectively.
The Company mitigates concentrations of credit risk in its investments in debt securities by currently investing approximately 95% of its portfolio in AA (or its equivalent) or higher-grade securities as rated by Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s Investors Service.
The Company’s methods to arrive at investment decisions are not solely based on the rating agencies’ credit ratings.
Xilinx also performs additional credit due diligence and conducts regular portfolio credit reviews, including a review of counterparty credit risk related to the Company’s forward currency exchange and interest rate swap contracts.
Additionally, Xilinx limits its investments in the debt securities of a single issuer based upon the issuer’s credit rating and attempts to further mitigate credit risk by diversifying risk across geographies and type of issuer.
Note 4.
Fair Value Measurements



The authoritative guidance for fair value measurements established by the FASB defines fair value as the exchange price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The Company primarily uses a consensus price or weighted-average price for its fair value assessment.
For certain securities with short maturities, such as discount commercial paper and certificates of deposit, the security is accreted from purchase price to face value at maturity.
If a subsequent transaction on the same security is observed in the marketplace, the price on the subsequent transaction is used as the current daily market price and the security will be accreted to face value based on the revised price.
Fair Value Hierarchy



The fair value framework requires the categorization of assets and liabilities into three levels based upon the assumptions (inputs) used to price the assets or liabilities.
The Company’s Level 1 assets consist of U.S. government securities and money market funds.
10

Level 2 — Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
The Company’s Level 2 assets consist of financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. agency securities, foreign government and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, debt mutual funds, asset-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities.
The Company’s Level 2 assets and liabilities also include foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts.
The Company has no Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



In instances where the inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the fair value measurement has been determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
The Company’s assessment of the significance of a particular item to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment, including the consideration of inputs specific to the asset or liability.
The following tables present information about the Company’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



11

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For certain of the Company’s financial instruments, including cash held in banks, accounts receivable and accounts payable, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities, and are therefore excluded from the fair value tables above.
Financial Instruments Not Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis



The Company's $500.0 million principal amount of 3.000% notes due March 15, 2021 (2021 Notes) and $750.0 million principal amount of 2.950% senior notes due June 1, 2024 (2024 Notes) are measured at fair value on a quarterly basis for disclosure purposes.
The fair values of the 2021 Notes and 2024 Notes as of September 28, 2019 were approximately $505.6 million and $768.8 million, respectively, based on the last trading price for the period (classified as Level 2 in fair value hierarchy due to relatively low trading volume).
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis 



As of September 28, 2019, the Company had non-marketable equity securities in private companies of $71.1 million, which were classified as Level 3 assets.
The Company’s investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are recorded at fair value if the Company recognizes an observable price adjustment or an impairment.
The Company’s investments in non-financial assets such as property, 



12

plant and equipment, goodwill and acquisition-related intangibles, are recorded at cost (net of accumulated depreciation or amortization, where applicable).
Note 5.
Substantially all time deposits were issued by institutions outside the U.S. as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019.
The Company reviewed the investment portfolio and determined that the gross unrealized losses on these investments as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019 were temporary in nature as evidenced by the fluctuations in the gross unrealized losses within the investment categories.
The marketable debt securities (financial institution securities, non-financial institution securities, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities) are highly rated by the credit rating agencies, there have been no defaults on any of these securities and the Company has received interest payments as they become due.
Therefore, the Company believes that it will be able to collect both principal and interest amount due to the Company.
Additionally, in the past several years a portion of the Company's investment in the mortgage-backed securities was redeemed or prepaid by the debtors at par.
Furthermore, the aggregate of individual unrealized losses that had been outstanding for twelve months or more was not significant as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019.
The Company neither intends to sell these investments nor concludes that it is more-likely-than-not that it will have to sell them until recovery of their carrying values.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of marketable debt securities, by contractual maturity, are shown in the table below.
Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations without call or prepayment penalties.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



As of September 28, 2019, $550.7 million of marketable debt securities with contractual maturities of greater than one year were classified as short-term investments.
Additionally, the above table does not include investments in money market funds and debt mutual funds because these investments do not have specific contractual maturities.
Certain information related to available-for-sale securities is as follows:



14

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The cost of securities matured or sold is based on the specific identification method.
The Company records the change in the fair value of its investment in debt mutual funds as part of its interest and other income, net.
The change in fair value was a net increase of $4.1 million and $5.6 million for the three months and six months ended September 28, 2019 and resulted in a gain within interest and other income, net for the period.
The change in fair value was a net decrease of $73 thousand and $6.3 million for the three months and six months ended September 29, 2018 and resulted in a loss within interest and other income, net for the period.
Note 6.
Derivative Financial Instruments



The Company’s primary objective for holding derivative financial instruments is to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.
As a result of the use of derivative financial instruments, the Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts may fail to meet their contractual obligations.
The Company manages counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts by reviewing counterparty creditworthiness on a regular basis, establishing collateral requirement and limiting exposure to any single counterparty.
The right of set-off that exists with certain transactions enables the Company to net amounts due to and from the counterparty, reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.
In May 2017, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions to manage interest rate risks related to fixed interest rate expenses from its 2024 Notes and floating interest rate income from its investments in marketable debt securities.
The interest rate swap contracts were designated and qualified as fair value hedges of the 2024 Notes and were separately accounted for as a derivative.
The interest rate swap contracts and the 2024 Notes were initially measured at fair value.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company sold the interest rate swap contracts for an immaterial gain.
The gain has been amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2024 Notes.
As a result of the sale, the Company recorded the net change in fair value of the interest rate swap contracts of $11.7 million in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
See “Note 10.
Debt and Credit Facility” for more discussion related to interest rate swap contracts.
There was no ineffectiveness during all periods presented.
Note 7.
Stock-Based Compensation Plans



The Company’s equity incentive plans are broad-based, long-term retention programs that cover employees, consultants and non-employee directors of the Company.
These plans are intended to attract and retain talented employees, consultants and non-employee directors and to provide such persons with a proprietary interest in the Company.
Stock-Based Compensation



The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense related to stock awards granted under the Company’s equity incentive plans and rights to acquire stock granted under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP):



15

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Employee Stock Option Plans



The types of awards allowed under the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (2007 Equity Plan) include incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), restricted stock and stock appreciation rights.
To date, the Company has issued a mix of non-qualified stock options and RSUs under the 2007 Equity Plan; however, there was no issuance of stock options during the first six months of fiscal 2020 and the entire fiscal 2019.
On August 8, 2019, the stockholders approved an amendment to increase the authorized number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2007 Equity Plan by 6.0 million shares.
As of September 28, 2019, 14.9 million shares remained available for grant under the 2007 Equity Plan.
RSU Awards



A summary of the Company’s RSU activity and related information is as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



16

The estimated fair values of RSUs were calculated based on the market price of Xilinx common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid on Xilinx common stock prior to vesting.
The per share weighted-average fair value of RSUs granted during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 was $113.02 ($62.79 for the second quarter of fiscal 2019), which were calculated based on estimates at the date of grant using the following weighted-average assumptions: 



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



For the majority of RSUs granted, the number of shares of common stock issued on the date the RSU awards vest is net of the minimum statutory withholding requirements that the Company pays in cash to the appropriate taxing authorities on behalf of the Company's employees.
During the first six months of fiscal 2020 and 2019, the Company withheld $71.8 million and $39.5 million worth of RSU awards, respectively, to satisfy the employees’ tax obligations.
During the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, the Company realized excess tax benefits of $32.2 million and $34.3 million, respectively, primarily from RSU vesting.
During the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2019, the excess tax benefits were $7.8 million and $8.7 million, respectively, primarily from RSU vesting.
Employees purchased 241 thousand shares for $19.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and 359 thousand shares for $18.0 million during the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The per-share weighted-average fair value of stock purchase rights granted under the ESPP during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 was $33.79 and $19.06, respectively.
The fair values of stock purchase plan rights granted in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and 2019 were estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model at the date of grant using the following assumptions:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The next scheduled purchase under the ESPP is in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020.
On August 8, 2019, the stockholders approved an amendment to increase the authorized number of shares reserved for issuance under the ESPP by 2.0 million shares.
As of September 28, 2019, 13.1 million shares were available for future issuance under the Company's ESPP.
Note 8.
Net Income Per Common Share



The computation of basic net income per common share for all periods presented is derived from information on the condensed consolidated statements of income, and there are no reconciling items in the numerator used to compute the diluted net income per common share.
The following table summarizes the computation of basic and diluted net income per common share:



17

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The total shares used in the denominator of the diluted net income per common share calculation include potentially dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding that are not included in basic net income per common share calculation.
The diluted shares were calculated by applying the treasury stock method to the impact of the equity incentive plans.
Certain shares of outstanding stock options and RSUs were excluded from diluted net income per common share calculation by applying the treasury stock method, as their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.
These excluded options and RSUs were immaterial for the second quarter and the first six months of fiscal 2020, but could be dilutive in the future if the Company’s average share price increases and is greater than the combined exercise prices and the unamortized fair values of these options and RSUs.
Note 9.
Inventories



Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method), or market (estimated net realizable value) and are comprised of the following:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 10.
Debt and Credit Facility



2021 Notes



On March 12, 2014, the Company issued the 2021 Notes at a discounted price of 99.281% of par.
Interest on the 2021 Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15.
The Company received net proceeds of $495.4 million from issuance of the 2021 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs.
As of September 28, 2019, the remaining term of the 2021 Notes is 1.5 years.
The following table summarizes the carrying value of the 2021 Notes as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



18

Interest expense related to the 2021 Notes was included in interest and other income, net on the condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



2024 Notes



On May 30, 2017, the Company issued the 2024 Notes at a discounted price of 99.887% of par.
Interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1.
The Company received $745.2 million from the issuance of the 2024 Notes, after the debt discount and deduction of debt issuance costs.
As of September 28, 2019, the remaining term of the 2024 Notes is approximately 4.7 years.
In relation to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts with certain independent financial institutions, whereby the Company paid on a semi-annual basis, a variable interest rate equal to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 91.43 bps, and received on a semi-annual basis, interest income at a fixed interest rate of 2.950%.
The Company did not incur any interest expense for the three months ended September 28, 2019 but incurred a net interest expense of $923 thousand for the six months ended September 28, 2019, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income, net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
The Company incurred a net interest expense of $642 thousand and $1.5 million for the three and six months ended September 29, 2018, respectively, from the interest rate swap contracts, which was included in interest and other income, net on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company sold the interest rate swap contracts for an immaterial gain.
The gain has been amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the 2024 Notes.
The following table summarizes the carrying value of the 2024 Notes as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Interest expense related to the 2024 Notes was included in interest and other income (expense), net on the condensed consolidated statements of income as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



19

Revolving Credit Facility



On December 7, 2016, the Company entered into a $400.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility that, upon certain conditions, may be extended by an additional $150.0 million, with a syndicate of banks (expiring in December 2021).
Borrowings under the credit facility will bear interest at a benchmark rate plus an applicable margin based upon the Company’s credit rating.
In connection with the credit facility, the Company is required to maintain certain financial and nonfinancial covenants.
As of September 28, 2019, the Company had made no borrowings under this credit facility and was not in violation of any of the covenants.
Note 11.
Common Stock Repurchase Program



The Board of Directors (Board) has approved stock repurchase programs enabling the Company to repurchase its common stock in the open market or through negotiated transactions with independent financial institutions.
On May 16, 2018, the Board authorized a repurchase program to repurchase the Company's common stock and debentures up to $500.0 million (2018 Repurchase Program).
The 2018 Repurchase Program has no stated expiration date.
Through September 28, 2019, the Company had used $430.9 million of the $500.0 million authorized under the 2018 Repurchase Program, leaving $69.1 million available for future repurchases.
The Company’s current policy is to retire all repurchased shares, and consequently, no treasury shares were held as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019.
During the first six months of fiscal 2020, the Company repurchased a total of 4.4 million shares for $477.2 million through a combination of open market and accelerated share repurchase program.
Additionally, the Company entered into a stock repurchase agreement with an independent financial institution to repurchase shares under the 2018 Repurchase Program.
Under the agreement, the Company provided the financial institution with an up-front payment totaling $300.0 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Under this arrangement, the Company received 1.7 million shares of common stock during the first six months of fiscal 2020 for $200.0 million.
Accordingly, the Company received the balance of $100.0 million back from the financial institution during the second quarter of fiscal 2020.
During the first six months of fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased 2.4 million shares of common stock in the open market with independent financial institutions for a total of $160.5 million.
Note 12.
Note 14.
The Company’s total gross unrecognized tax benefits as of September 28, 2019, determined in accordance with FASB authoritative guidance for measuring uncertain tax positions, increased by $18.3 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 to $167.1 million.
Another $85.5 million would increase additional paid-in capital.
The Commissioner appealed the Tax Court decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals (Ninth Circuit).
The Ninth Circuit overturned the Tax Court’s decision in an opinion issued on July 24, 2018, but subsequently withdrew it.
After rehearing the arguments on October 16, 2018, the Ninth Circuit issued a subsequent opinion on June 7, 2019.
In a 2-1 decision, the Ninth Circuit overturned the Tax Court’s decision.
On July 22, 2019, Altera filed a petition for an en banc rehearing with the Ninth Circuit, which will consist of a panel of 11 judges.
In the case of a denial of a Ninth Circuit en banc rehearing or a decision against Altera following an en banc rehearing, Altera can appeal to the United States Supreme Court for review.
21

Note 15.
Leases and Commitments



Xilinx leases some of its facilities and office buildings under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through August 2029.
Additionally, Xilinx entered into a land lease in conjunction with the Company’s building in Singapore, which will expire in November 2035 and the lease cost was settled in an up-front payment in June 2006.
Some of the operating leases for facilities and office buildings require payment of operating costs, including property taxes, repairs, maintenance and insurance.
Most of the Company’s leases contain renewal options for varying terms.
These renewal terms can extend the lease term from 1 to 15 years, and are included in the lease term when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The following table presents the maturities of lease liabilities as of September 28, 2019:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The Company's leases were included as a component of the following condensed consolidated balance sheet lines:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The components of lease costs were as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Other information related to leases was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



22

Other commitments as of September 28, 2019 totaled $143.2 million and consisted of purchases of inventory and other non-cancelable purchase obligations related to subcontractors that manufacture silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services.
The Company expects to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications.
Additionally, as of September 28, 2019, the Company also had $1.5 million of non-cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/software maintenance, $4.2 million related to renovation of properties and $34.4 million commitments primarily related to open purchase orders from ordinary operations.
These commitments expire at various dates through August 2024.
Note 16.
Product Warranty and Indemnification



The Company generally sells products with a limited warranty for product quality.
The terms and conditions of these indemnity obligations are limited by contract, which obligations are typically perpetual from the effective date of the agreement.
The Company has historically received only a limited number of requests for indemnification under these provisions and has not made any significant payments pursuant to these provisions.
Note 17.
Contingencies



Other Matters



On June 11, 2015, John P. Neblett, as Chapter 7 Trustee of Valley Forge Composite Technologies, Inc., filed a complaint against Xilinx and others in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania (Bankruptcy No.
1:13-bk-05253-JJT).
On September 21, 2015, the action was withdrawn from the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania and transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky.
On November 2, 2015, Xilinx, along with other defendants, filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
On November 3, 2015, Xilinx filed a motion for sanctions pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11.
On June 27, 2016, the Court denied both motions.
On September 11, 2017, Xilinx, along with other defendants, filed motions for summary judgment seeking to dispose of all claims against them.
On July 3, 2018, the Court granted both of Xilinx’s Motions for Summary Judgment, disposing of all claims asserted against Xilinx.
On August 1, 2018, the Trustee filed a Notice of Appeal.
On August 9, 2018, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued an Order to Show Cause requesting that the appellant address a possible jurisdictional defect.
On August 29, 2018, the appellant responded to the Order to Show Cause.
On September 10, 2018, appellees, including Xilinx, filed a joint reply.
On January 7, 2019, the Court of Appeals issued an order dismissing the appeal for lack of jurisdiction.
On February 19, 2019, the District Court issued an order permitting any party seeking to certify the case for appeal to file a motion.
On March 11, 2019, defendant Avnet filed a motion to certify the case for appeal.
On May 14, 2019 the Court denied Avnet’s motion.
On June 4, 2019, Avnet and the counterclaim and crossclaim defendants stipulated to dismissal of Avnet’s remaining counterclaims and crossclaims.
The Court entered final judgment on June 25, 2019.
On July 22, 2019, the Trustee filed his notice of appeal and filed his opening appellate brief on September 17, 2019.
Periodically, the Company reviews the status of each matter and assesses its potential financial exposure.
Because of such uncertainties, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time.
23

Note 18.
Goodwill and Acquisition-Related Intangibles



A summary of the goodwill and acquisitions-related intangibles balances as of September 28, 2019 and March 30, 2019 was as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Based on the carrying value of acquisition-related intangibles recorded as of September 28, 2019, and assuming no subsequent acquisition or impairment of the underlying assets, the annual amortization expense for acquisition-related intangibles is expected to be as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



In-process research and development is not subject to amortization prior to the completion of the projects and therefore the balance is excluded from the above annual amortization expense schedule.
Note 19.
The Company operates and tracks its results in one operating segment.
Xilinx sells its products to OEMs and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or subcontract manufacturers.
Note 20. Business Combination



In July 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Solarflare by acquiring all of its outstanding ordinary shares.
Total purchase consideration to acquire Solarflare was approximately $400.0 million, including $8.4 million of fair value from the Company's preexisting investment in Solarflare and net of $6.8 million of cash acquired.
Additionally, the Company was required to assess the fair value of its preexisting investment in Solarflare and, as a result, recorded an immaterial gain in its condensed consolidated statements of income as part of interest and other income, net.
The Company allocated the purchase price to tangible and identified intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values.
As additional information becomes available, such as the finalization of the estimated fair value of tax-related items, the Company may further update the preliminary purchase price allocation during the remainder of the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date).
The preliminary fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition of Solarflare, by major class, were recognized as follows:



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



The goodwill of $239.2 million arising from the acquisition is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits that will be generated from the combination of the Company and Solarflare.
The identified intangible assets assumed in the acquisition of Solarflare were recognized as follows, based upon the preliminary fair values as of the closing date of the acquisition.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]



Note 21.
Subsequent Events



On October 22, 2019, the Board declared a cash dividend of $0.37 per common share for the third quarter of fiscal 2020.
The dividend is payable on December 3, 2019 to stockholders of record on November 12, 2019.
25

On October 23, 2019, the Board increased the Company’s authorization to repurchase its common stock and debentures by $1.00 billion .
26
