Item 4.Controls and Procedures



We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms.
These controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Internal controls are procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that: transactions are properly authorized; assets are safeguarded against unauthorized or improper use; and transactions are properly recorded and reported, to permit the preparation of our financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.
Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.
Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.
Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
We continuously evaluate our internal controls and make changes to improve them as necessary.
Our intent is to maintain our disclosure controls as dynamic systems that change as conditions warrant.
An evaluation was carried out, under the supervision of and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a–15(e) and 15d–15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
36
