PART II - OTHER INFORMATION 



Item 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 





Our stock price may in the future not meet the minimum bid price for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our ability to publicly or privately sell equity securities and the liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. 



Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) provides that the closing bid price for our common stock may not be below $1.00 per share for any period of 30 consecutive trading days to maintain our continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market (“Minimum Bid Price Rule”). Although we are currently in compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule, there can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to satisfy this rule. If we were to fail to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Rule in the future and became subject to delisting, such delisting from Nasdaq would adversely affect our ability to raise additional financing through the public or private sale of equity securities, would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. Delisting also could have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. 



There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 



Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  



There have been no material changes to the risk factors included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. 



Item 2. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS 









Upon expiry of this repurchase program in March 2018, the program was not renewed again. 



Item 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES 



Not applicable. 



Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 



Not applicable. 



Item 5. OTHER INFORMATION 



Not applicable. 





Table of Contents  



Item 6. EXHIBITS 







Table of Contents  



SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. 





