Part II - Other Information  



Item 1. Legal Proceedings 



The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018. 



PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. 



On February 21, 2018, PulseOn Oy filed an application with the Court of Appeal in England seeking leave to appeal the judgment of the Patent Court issued on January 18, 2018, holding that no accused Garmin products infringed either of the Registered Community Designs asserted by PulseOn Oy. The hearing before the Court of Appeal is scheduled to take place on January 30, 2019. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. 



In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving patent infringement, other intellectual property, product liability, customer claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be. However, the Company’s management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows. 



Item 1A. Risk Factors 







Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations. 



A significant portion of our global and U.S. sales are comprised of goods assembled and manufactured in our facilities in Taiwan and the People’s Republic of China, and components for a number of our goods are sourced from suppliers in the People’s Republic of China. The imposition of additional U.S. or foreign governmental controls, regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade, trade sanctions, or tariffs, particularly those applicable to goods imported from Taiwan or the People’s Republic of China, could have substantial adverse effects on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 





 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



Items (a) and (b) are not applicable. 





The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant. In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017 with no additional shares having been repurchased during the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. 



 Item 3.Defaults Upon Senior Securities  



None 



 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures  



Not applicable 



 Item 5.Other Information  



Not applicable 



 Item 6.Exhibits  



 Exhibit 31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a). 



 Exhibit 31.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a). 



 Exhibit 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 



 Exhibit 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  







SIGNATURES 



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 









INDEX TO EXHIBITS 





