 Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  



 The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of risk and uncertainties, including those set forth under the heading “Forward Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this report and those set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.  



 Overview  





 The Company is organized into two reportable operating segments. The “Lifeboat Distribution” segment distributes technical software to corporate resellers, value added resellers (VARs), consultants and systems integrators worldwide. The “TechXtend” segment is a value-added reseller of software, hardware and services for corporations, government organizations and academic institutions in the USA and Canada.  



 Factors Influencing Our Financial Results  



 We derive the majority of our net sales though the sale of third party software licenses, maintenance and service agreements. In our Lifeboat distribution segment, sales are impacted by the number of product lines we distribute, and sales penetration of those products into the reseller channel. In our TechXtend segment sales are generally driven by sales force effectiveness and success in providing superior customer service, competitive pricing, and flexible payment solutions to our customers. Our sales are also impacted by external factors such as levels of IT spending and customer demand for products we distribute.  



 We sell in a competitive environment where gross product margins have historically declined due to competition and changes in product mix towards products where no delivery of a physical product is required. To date, we have been able to implement cost efficiencies such as the use of drop shipments, electronic ordering (“EDI”) and other capabilities to be able to operate our business profitably as gross margins have declined.   



 Selling general and administrative expenses are comprised mainly of employee salaries, commissions and other employee related expenses, facility costs, costs to maintain our IT infrastructure, public company compliance costs and professional fees. We monitor our level of accounts payable, inventory turnover and accounts receivable turnover which are measures of how efficiently we utilize capital in our business.  





 Dividend Policy and Share Repurchase Program. Historically we have sought to return value to investors through the payment of quarterly dividends and share repurchases. Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 and $0.9 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, respectively. The payment of future dividends and share repurchases is at the discretion of our Board of Directors 





 Table of Contents  



and dependent on results of operations, projected capital requirements and other factors the Board of Directors may find relevant.  



 Stock Volatility. The technology sector of the United States stock markets is subject to substantial volatility. Numerous conditions which impact the technology sector or the stock market in general or the Company in particular, whether or not such events relate to or reflect upon the Company’s operating performance, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Furthermore, fluctuations in the Company’s operating results, announcements regarding litigation, the loss of a significant vendor or customer, increased competition, reduced vendor incentives and trade credit, higher operating expenses, and other developments, could have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock.  



 Forward Looking Statements  



 This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Statements in this report regarding future events or conditions, including but not limited to statements regarding industry prospects and the Company’s expected financial position, results of operations, business and financing plans, are forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by forward-looking words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” and “continue” or similar words.  



 Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Substantial risks and uncertainties unknown at this time could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, the continued acceptance of the Company’s distribution channel by vendors and customers, the timely availability and acceptance of new products, product mix, market conditions, competitive pricing pressures, contribution of key vendor relationships and support programs, including vendor rebates and discounts, as well as factors that affect the software industry in general and other factors generally. We strongly urge current and prospective investors to carefully consider the cautionary statements and risk factors contained in this report and our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.  



 The Company operates in a rapidly changing business, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict every risk factor, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on the Company’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements.  



 Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  



 The statements concerning future sales, future gross profit margin and future selling and administrative expenses are forward looking statements involving certain risks and uncertainties such as availability of products, product mix, pricing pressures, market conditions and other factors, which could result in a fluctuation of sales below recent experience.  



 Financial Overview  







 Table of Contents  



 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  



 Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with US GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  



 On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to product returns, bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, stock-based compensation, contingencies and litigation.  



 The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  



 The Company believes the following critical accounting policies used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements affect its more significant judgments and estimates.  



 Revenue  



 The Company adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with customers using the full retrospective method effective January 1, 2018. See Note 5 to the accompanying financial statements for further information. The Company makes estimates regarding performance obligations inherent in the products and services it sells including, whether ongoing maintenance obligations performed by third party vendors are distinct from the related software licenses, and allocation of sales prices among distinct performance obligations. These estimates require significant judgement to determine whether the software’s functionality is dependent on ongoing maintenance or if substantially all functionality is available in the original software download. We also use judgement in the allocation of sales proceeds among performance obligations, utilizing observable data such as stand-alone selling prices, or market pricing for similar products and services.  



 Allowance for Accounts Receivable  





 Accounts Receivable – Long Term  



 The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale based on prevailing rates. In doing so, the Company considers competitive market rates and other factors. At times the Company sells receivables to a financial institution on a non-recourse basis. The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.  



 Inventory Allowances  



 The Company writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.  





 Table of Contents  



 Income Taxes  



 The Company has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets. In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.  



 Share-Based Payments  



 Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. We record the impact of forfeitures when they occur. We review our valuation assumptions periodically and, as a result, we may change our valuation assumptions used to value stock based awards granted in future periods. Such changes may lead to a significant change in the expense we recognize in connection with share-based payments.  



 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  





 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases ("ASU 2016-02"). ASU 2016-02 supersedes the lease guidance under FASB ASC Topic 840, Leases, resulting in the creation of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. Leases will be classified as either finance or operating leases with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the statement of earnings. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.   



 In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No. 2016-13"). ASU No. 2016-13 revises the methodology for measuring credit losses on financial instruments and the timing of when such losses are recorded. ASU No. 2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach. The Company is currently evaluating the potential effects of adopting the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition for accounts receivable.   



 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows. The new standard is effective for the Company beginning with the first quarter of 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  







 Table of Contents  



consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The ASU is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2019. Early adoption is permitted in fiscal 2018 with modified retrospective application. The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.  



 In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, “Scope of Modification Accounting”, to reduce diversity in practice and provide clarity regarding existing guidance in ASC 718, “Stock Compensation”. The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.  



 In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) – Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, which improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity’s risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current U.S. GAAP. ASU No. 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. The Company is currently assessing the impact this ASU will have on its consolidated financial statements.  





 In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-05, Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (SEC Update), Income Taxes (Topic 740). ASU 2018-05 provides guidance regarding the recording of tax impacts where uncertainty exists, in the period of adoption of the 2017 U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Tax Act”), which allowed companies to reflect provisional amounts for those specific income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act for which the accounting under ASC Topic 740 is incomplete but for which a reasonable estimate could be determined. During the six months ended June 30, 2018, the Company has not recognized any material changes to the provisional amounts recorded in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with the 2017 Tax Act. The accounting for the tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act will be finalized in the second half of 2018 as we complete our federal and state tax returns and incorporate any additional guidance that may be issued by the U.S. tax authorities.  



 Results of Operations  









 Table of Contents  



 Non-GAAP Financial Measures  



 Our management monitors a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis in order to track the progress of our business. We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include net sales, gross margin, adjusted gross billings, gross profit as a percentage of gross billings, net income as a percentage of net sales, net income as a percentage of gross billings, and net income excluding separation expenses, net of taxes. We use a variety of operating and other information to evaluate the operating performance of our business, develop financial forecasts, make strategic decisions, and prepare and approve annual budgets. These key indicators include financial information that is prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and presented in our consolidated financial statements as well as non-GAAP performance measurement tools.  







 We define adjusted gross billings as net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for the cost of sales related to Software – security and highly interdependent with support and Maintenance, support and other services. We provided a reconciliation of Adjusted gross billings to net sales, which is the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. We use Adjusted gross billings of product and services as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into the volume of business generated by our business, and to analyze the changes to our accounts receivable and accounts payable. Our use of Adjusted gross billings of product and services as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider it in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted gross billings of product and services or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.  





 Table of Contents  





 We use Net income excluding separation payments as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into comparison of our businesses profitability when compared to the prior year. Our use of Net income excluding separation expenses, net of tax has limitations, and you should not consider it in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under U.S. GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate separation expenses net of tax, or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures.  



 Three Months Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2017  



 Net Sales  



 Net sales for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 increased 13%, or $4.9 million, to $43.9 million, compared to $39.0 million for the same period in 2017. Adjusted gross billings for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 increased 13%, or $13.6 million, to $116.6 million, compared to $103.0 million for the same period in 2017.   



 Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 increased $3.0 million, or 8% to $38.3 million, compared to $35.3 million for the same period a year earlier. The increase was due primarily to growth in sales penetration for several of our more significant product lines, as well as the addition of several new product lines. The increases were partially offset by turnover in some vendor and customer accounts, including the termination of one of our vendor distribution agreements that accounted for less than 10% of net sales. While the tenure of our vendor relationships is generally for multiple years, the distribution agreements themselves are short term in nature and vendors consolidate or change their relationships for various reasons. We operate in a competitive market in which vendor distribution and sales agreements are subject to turnover due to competitive bidding processes and other factors. Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment increased $6.3 million or 7% to $102.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018. Adjusted gross billings increased at a lower rate than net sales due to a decline in gross profit as a percentage of adjusted gross billings for certain products that are reported net of the related cost of sales.  



 TechXtend segment net sales increased $2.0 million or 52% to $5.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, compared to $3.7 million for the prior year. The increase was primarily due to several larger enterprise sales during the current period compared to the second quarter of 2017. Sales in our TechXtend segment may vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the timing of IT spending decisions by our larger customers and internal capital allocation decisions regarding capital we allocate to the extended payment program. Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment increased $7.3 million or 100% to $14.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018.   



 During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, we relied on two key customers for a total of 34.5% of our net sales. One major customer accounted for 18.4% and the other for 16.1%, of our total net sales during the three months ended June 30, 2018. These same customers accounted for 32.3% and 8.4%, of total net accounts receivable as of June 30, 2018.  



 Gross Profit  



 Gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 decreased slightly to $6.5 million, compared to $6.6 million for the same period in 2017. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit decreased 6% or $0.3 million to $5.3 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 compared $5.6 million for the same period in 2017 due to lower vendor rebates and the impact of our lower gross margin as a percentage of net sales (discussed below). Vendor rebates decreased due to the termination of one of our distribution agreements by a vendor that paid a rebate based on sales. TechXtend segment gross profit increased 27% to $1.2 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 compared to $1.0 million for the same period in the prior year due to the increased net sales from the large enterprise sales discussed above.   





 Table of Contents  



 Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 was 14.8% compared to 16.8% in 2017. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin was 13.8% for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, compared to 15.9% in 2017. TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 was 21.9%, compared to 26.1% in 2017. The decrease in gross profit margin was primarily caused by the change in the percentage mix of our products which are recorded net of the related cost of sales. During the three months ended June 30, 2018 approximately 8.7 percent of our net sales was attributable to security, maintenance and third-party service products which are recorded on a net basis, or an effective 100% gross profit margin, compared to 10.5% in 2017. This shift in product mix had the effect of reducing gross profit as a percent of net sales by 170 basis points. The remainder of the decline was caused by lower gross profit margin on Software and hardware products recorded on a gross basis, as growth in these products was primarily from high volume lines which are sold at lower gross profit margin than our average gross profit. We operate in a competitive environment where the trend has been and may continue to be for gross profit margins as a percentage of adjusted gross billings to decline.   



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  







 Separation Expense  



 Separation expense for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 was $2.4 million compared to no expense in the same period in 2017. The increase is due to $2.4 million in separation expenses related to the resignation of our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 11, 2018, consisting of a $1.7 million charge for accelerated vesting of restricted stock and $0.8 million in accrued payments to be made over the next twelve months.   



 Income Taxes  



 For the three months ended June 30, 2018, the Company recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.1 million, compared to $0.6 million for the same period in 2017. The company’s effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was impacted by limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation resulting from section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, and adjustments to the accrual for state income taxes in states which have enacted economic nexus statutes. The Company recorded a $0.4 million tax benefit related to separation expenses during the three months ended June 30, 2018 which were accounted for as a discrete item, resulting in a 18% effective tax benefit rate on that expense. We also adjusted our provision for state income taxes in states with economic nexus statutes by $0.2. The effective tax rate for ordinary income was 24.1% for the three months ending June 30, 2018, compared to 32.0% during the same period in the prior year.   



 Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJA we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of June 30, 2018. As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the TCJA and any additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA will be completed in 2018.  



 Six Months Ended June 30, 2018 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2017  



 Net Sales  



 Net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased 10%, or $7.4 million, to $84.5 million, compared to $77.1 million for the same period in 2017. Adjusted gross billings for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased 12%, 





 Table of Contents  



or $25.9 million, to $241.7 million, compared to $215.8 million for the same period in 2017. Adjusted gross billings increased at a higher rate than net sales primarily due to a higher percentage of sales being comprised of maintenance and Software-security and highly interdependent with support which are recorded on a net basis.   



 Lifeboat Distribution segment net sales for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased $6.0 million, or 9% to $75.2 million, compared to $69.2 million for the same period a year earlier. The increase was due primarily to growth in sales penetration for several of our more significant product lines, as well as the addition of several new product lines. The increases were partially offset by turnover in some vendor and customer accounts. We operate in a competitive market in which vendor distribution and sales agreements are subject to change due competitive bidding processes and other factors. Adjusted gross billings for the Lifeboat Distribution segment increased $20.9 million or 10% to $221.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018.  



 TechXtend segment net sales increased $1.4 million or 17% to $9.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to $7.9 million for the prior year. The increase was primarily due to several high dollar enterprise sale transactions during the period ended June 30, 2018. Sales in our TechXtend segment may vary significantly from period to period based on the timing of IT spending decisions by our larger customers and internal capital allocation decisions regarding funds allocated to our extended payment program. Adjusted gross billings for the TechXtend segment increased $5.0 million or 32% to $20.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018. Adjusted gross billings increased at a higher rate than net sales because of a higher percentage of our sales being derived from maintenance, service and subscriptions which are recorded on a net basis.  



 During the six months ended June 30, 2018, we relied on two key customers for a total of 43.2% of our gross billings. One major customer accounted for 22.0% and the other for 17.1%, of our total net sales during the six months ended June 30, 2018. These same customers accounted for 32.3% and 8.4%, of total net accounts receivable as of June 30, 2018.  



 Gross Profit  



 Gross profit for the six months ended June 30, 2018 increased 1% or $0.1 million, to $13.4 million, compared to $13.3 million for the same period in 2017. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit was unchanged at $11.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 as the impact of decreased gross profit margins offset increases in net sales. TechXtend segment gross profit increased 3% or $0.1 million to $1.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year, due to the higher sales discussed above.  



 Gross profit margin (gross profit as a percentage of net sales) for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was 15.9% compared to 17.3% in 2017. Lifeboat Distribution segment gross profit margin was 15.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2018, compared to 16.6% in 2017. The decrease in gross profit margin for the Lifeboat Distribution segment was caused primarily by decreased gross profit margin for hardware and software products, resulting from growth in some of our higher volume product lines, which carry a lower than average gross profit margin, and due to competitive pricing pressure. We operate in a competitive environment where the trend has been and may continue to be for gross profit margins as a percentage of adjusted gross billings to decline. However, the recent trend has been for an increasing portion of our revenues to be derived from the sale of security, maintenance and service agreements that are recorded net of related costs of sales, achieving a 100% gross profit margin, thereby offsetting in part the impact of the declining gross profit margins on software and hardware products. TechXtend segment gross profit margin for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was 20.8%, compared to 23.6% in 2017. The decrease in gross profit margin was due to a shift in product mix and competitive pricing dynamics.  



 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  









 Table of Contents  



 Separation Expense  



 Separation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $2.4 million compared to no expense in the same period in 2017. The increase is due to $2.4 million in separation expenses related to the resignation of our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 11, 2018, consisting of a $1.7 million charge for accelerated vesting of restricted stock and $0.8 million in accrued payments to be made over the next twelve months.  



 Income Taxes  



 For the six months ended June 30, 2018, the we recorded a provision for income taxes of $0.6 million or 55.0% of income, compared to $1.2 million or 32.0% of income for the same period in 2017. The company’s effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was impacted by limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation resulting from section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, and adjustments to the accrual for state income taxes in states which have enacted economic nexus statutes. We recorded a $0.4 million tax benefit related to separation expenses during the six months ended June 30, 2018 which were accounted for as a discrete item, resulting in a 18% effective tax benefit rate on those expenses. We also recorded an adjustment to our accrual for state income taxes in states with economic nexus statutes of $0.2 million. The effective tax rate for ordinary income was 24.1% for the six months ending June 30, 2018.  



 Due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the TCJA we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of June 30, 2018. As we collect and prepare necessary data and interpret the TCJA and any additional guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which adjustments are made. The accounting for the tax effects of the TCJA will be completed in 2018.  



 Liquidity and Capital Resources  



 Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $4.9 million to $10.4 million at June 30, 2018 from $5.5 million at December 31, 2017. The increase in cash was primarily the result of $7.8 million in cash provided by operating activities offset by $2.5 million of cash used for stock repurchases and dividends.   



 Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 was $7.8 million, comprised of net income adjusted for non-cash items of $3.2 million, and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $4.6 million.   



 The increase in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was primarily due to a decrease in net working capital (accounts receivable, inventory, and vendor prepayments less accounts payable) resulting from the utilization of vendor prepayments made in the prior year and reduced long term accounts receivable.  



 In the six months ended June 30, 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $0.2 million, compared to $0.3 million in the prior year.   



 Net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2018 of $2.5 million was comprised of $1.5 million of dividend payments on our Common Stock, and $1.0 million for the stock repurchases.   



 On November 15, 2017, the Company entered into a $20,000 revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with Citibank, N.A. (“Citibank”) pursuant to a Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Agreement (the “Loan Agreement”), Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Loan Note (the “Note”), Second Amended and Restated Security Agreement (the “Security Agreement”) and Second Amended and Restated Pledge and Security Agreement (the “Pledge Agreement”). The Credit Facility, which will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, matures on August 31, 2020, at which time the Company must pay all outstanding principal of all outstanding loans plus all accrued and unpaid interest, and any interest, fees, costs and expenses, if any. As of June 30, 2018, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility.  





 Table of Contents  



 We anticipate that our working capital needs will increase as we invest in the growth of our business. We believe that the funds held in cash and cash equivalents and our unused borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our working capital and cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.  







   (1)    Operating leases relate primarily to the leases of the space used for our operations in Eatontown, New Jersey, Mesa Arizona, Mississauga, Canada and Amsterdam, Netherlands. The commitments for operating leases include the minimum rent payments. 



 As of June 30, 2018, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under our lines of credit and no commitments relating to standby letters of credit, and has no standby repurchase obligations or other commercial commitments (see Note 8 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements).  



 Foreign Exchange  



 The Company’s foreign subsidiaries are subject to changes in demand or pricing resulting from fluctuations in currency exchange rates or other factors. We are subject to fluctuations primarily in the Canadian Dollar and the Euro Dollar to-U.S. Dollar exchange rate.  



 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  



 As of June 30, 2018, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  



 Item 2. - Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  



 The table below sets forth the repurchase of Common Stock by the Company and its affiliated purchasers during the   



 second quarter of 2018.  





 Table of Contents  



 ISSUER PURCHASE OF EQUITY SECURITIES  





   (1)    Includes 61,416 shares surrendered to the Company by employees to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of previously issued shares of Restricted Stock. These shares are not included in the Common Stock repurchase program referred to in footnote (4) below. 



   (2)    Average price paid per share reflects the closing price the Company’s Common Stock on the business date the shares were surrendered by the employee stockholder to satisfy individual tax withholding obligations upon vesting of Restricted Stock or the price of the Common Stock paid on the open market purchase, as applicable. 



   (3)    Average price paid per share reflects the price of the Company’s Common Stock purchased on the open market. 



   (4)    On December 3, 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans. On February 2, 2017, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an increase of 500,000 shares of Common Stock to the number of shares of Common Stock available for repurchase under its repurchase plans. The Company expects to purchase shares of its Common Stock from time to time in the market or otherwise subject to market conditions.  



 The Common Stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.  



 Item 6. Exhibits  







 Table of Contents  







 Table of Contents  



 SIGNATURES  



 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.  





