fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company adopted ASC 842 by recording operating right-of-use assets of $110.8 million, net of deferred rent liabilities of $3.0 million that were reclassified to operating right-of-use assets, and operating lease liabilities of $113.8 million.
The adoption of the standard did not materially impact the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations and had no impact on cash flows.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-04,”Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments”, that clarifies and improves areas of guidance related to the recently issued standards on credit losses (ASU 2016-13), hedging (ASU 2017-12), and recognition and measurement of financial instruments (ASU 2016-01).
The amendments of ASU 2017-12 were effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020, and did not have a material impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company continues to evaluate the impact of ASU 2016-13 and will consider the amendments of ASU 2019-04 as part of that process.
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
The Company recorded an income tax expense of $58.9 million for the three months ended September 29, 2019, which yielded an effective tax rate of approximately 11.2%.
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per share is computed using the treasury stock method, for dilutive stock options, restricted stock units, convertible notes, and warrants.
Refer to Note 12 - Long-term Debt and Other Borrowings for additional information regarding the Company’s convertible notes.
All of the Company’s other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax.
The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
The Company’s primary financial instruments include its cash, cash equivalents, investments, restricted cash and investments, long-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable, long-term debt and leases, and foreign currency related derivative instruments.


item2.txt
We do not undertake any obligation to release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
We aim to increase our strategic relevance with our customers by contributing more to their continued success.
Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The variability in our customers’ investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers’ ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes.
•the dilutive impact of our Convertible Notes (as defined below) on our earnings per share.
We have $4.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.


