fls.txt



item1.txt
In conjunction with the adoption of ASC 606, the Company’s revenue recognition policy has been amended, refer to Note 3 - Revenue for a description of the amendments.
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $139.4 million, net of tax adjustment of $21.0 million, which increased the June 25, 2018 opening retained earnings balance on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily as a result of changes in the timing of recognition of system sales.
Under ASC 606, the Company recognizes revenue from sales of systems when the Company determines that control has passed to the customer which is generally (1) for products that have been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment upon shipment or delivery; (2) for products that have not been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment, revenue is recognized upon completion of installation and receipt of customer acceptance; (3) for transactions where legal title does not pass upon shipment or delivery and the Company does not have a right to payment, revenue is recognized when legal title passes to the customer and the Company has a right to payment, which is generally at customer acceptance.
Except as disclosed above, the adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2019.
The amendments provide clarity on the measurement methodology to be used for the required disclosure of fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost on the balance sheet and clarifies that an entity should evaluate the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to available-for-sale securities in combination with the entity’s other deferred tax assets, among other changes.
The Company’s adoption of this standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
The Company’s adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company’s adoption of this standard resulted in a $0.4 million decrease to retained earnings and a corresponding $0.4 million increase to other assets on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In November 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-18, “Statement of Cash Flows – Restricted Cash.” This standard update requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be included in cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown in the statement of cash flows.
The adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
The adoption of this standard resulted in a $2.2 million increase to retained earnings, with a corresponding $2.2 million decrease to other comprehensive income.
The Company adopted these amendments in the first quarter of fiscal Year 2019 and as a result the Company has included a Condensed Consolidated Statement of Stockholders’ Equity to this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
The Company recognizes revenue when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services by following a five-step process, (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price, and (5) recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation, as further described below.
For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis.
Revenue from services is recognized over time as services are completed or ratably over the contractual period of generally one year or less.


item2.txt
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and are based on information currently and reasonably known to us.
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps.
Despite recent semiconductor capital investment volatility, over the longer term, we believe that technology inflections in our industry, including 3D device scaling, multiple patterning, process flow, and advanced packaging chip integration will lead to an increase in our served addressable market for our products and services in deposition, etch, and clean.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The variability in our customers’ investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers’ ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
We have $4.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
In addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt.
•impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future.


