fls.txt



item1.txt
In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” This ASU amends existing guidance to require that deferred income tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in a classified balance sheet, and eliminates the prior guidance which required an entity to separate deferred tax assets and liabilities into a current amount and a non-current amount in a classified balance sheet.
The implementation resulted in a net reduction of prepaid expense and other current assets of $49.7 million, accrued expense and other current liabilities of $5.3 million, and other long-term liabilities of $39.4 million; and an increase in other assets of $5.0 million in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and had no impact on cash provided by or used in operations for any period presented.
As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded a $40.1 million cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for the recognition of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits for all years prior to the adoption.
Accordingly, the provision for income taxes in the three and six months ended December 24, 2017 included excess tax benefits of $11.0 million and $13.0 million, respectively, that decreased the income tax provision.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-1, “Financial Instruments – Overall – Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” The amendment changes the accounting for and financial statement presentation of equity investments, other than those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee.
The Company is required to adopt this standard starting in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 and does not anticipate that implementation will have a material impact on its Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
In January 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-2, “Leases.” The amendment requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements.
In August 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-15, “Statement of Cash Flows – Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.” The amendment provides and clarifies guidance on the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows to eliminate diversity in practice.
The Company is required to adopt the standard update in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019, with a retrospective transition method required.
In October 2016, the FASB released ASU 2016-16, “Income Tax – Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory.” This standard update improves the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
An option is a right to purchase Common Stock at a set price.
An RSU award is an agreement to issue a set number of shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting.
The Company’s market-based PRSUs contain both a market condition and a service condition.
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2016-9, “Compensation – Stock Compensation,” as discussed further in Note 2.
The 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated (the “1999 ESPP”), allows employees to designate a portion of their base compensation to be withheld through payroll deductions and used to purchase Common Stock at a purchase price per share equal to the lower of 85% of the fair market value of Common Stock on the first or last day of the applicable purchase period.
During the three and six months ended December 24, 2017, a total of 412,469 shares of the Company’s Common Stock were sold to employees under the 1999 ESPP.


item2.txt
We have built a strong global presence with core competencies in areas like nanoscale applications enablement, chemistry, plasma and fluidics, advanced systems engineering and a broad range of operational disciplines.
Our core technical competency is integrating hardware, process, materials, software, and process control enabling results on the wafer.
This involves the repetition of a set of core processes and can require hundreds of individual steps.
Along with meeting technical requirements, wafer processing equipment must deliver high productivity and be cost-effective.
We believe that demand for our products and services should increase faster than overall spending on wafer fabrication equipment, as the proportion of customers’ capital expenditures rises in these technology inflection areas and we continue to gain market share.


item3.txt



item4.txt
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over final reporting that are designed to comply with Rule 13a-15 of the Exchange Act.


part2.txt
We accrue for a liability when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
The semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand.
The variability in our customers’ investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers’ ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices.
During periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis.
Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
We have $3.3 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding.
Additionally, we have $1.25 billion available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion.


