The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
Upon adoption at January 1, 2019, the Company recognized right of use assets of $91,462 and lease liabilities of $95,784 on the consolidated balance sheet.
The difference between the initial right of use asset and lease liability balances recognized upon adoption of ASC Topic 842 is primarily due to accrued lease incentive balances at December 31, 2018.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or cash flows.
The Company recognizes right of use assets and lease liabilities for leases greater than twelve months in duration based on the contract consideration for lease components through the term of the lease and the applicable discount rate.This Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") is intended to provide an understanding of Vishay's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key measures from period to period.
We have paid dividends each quarter since the first fiscal quarter of 2014, and further increased the quarterly cash dividend by 12% to $0.095 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2019.
During 2018 we reacted quickly to the opportunities created by the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) in December 2017.
In June 2018, we used the net proceeds from issuing $600 million principal amount of new convertible senior notes to repurchase some of our outstanding convertible senior debentures, which had become less tax-efficient because of the TCJA.
As a result of these transactions, we reduced the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures due 2040, 2041, and 2042 from $575 million to $36.6 million.
We continued to repurchase convertible senior debentures in open market and privately-negotiated transactions with holders, further reducing the principal amount of outstanding convertible senior debentures to $21.1 million in 2019.
The new credit facility increases the aggregate commitment of revolving loans from $640 million to $750 million; provides us with the ability to request up to $300 million of incremental facilities, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, which could take the form of additional revolving commitments, incremental “term loan A” or “term loan B” facilities, or incremental equivalent debt; reduces the undrawn commitment fee while maintaining the same borrowing rates; and provides greater operating flexibility, including with respect to intercompany funding and other transactions, to enable us to continue to streamline our complex subsidiary structure.
Substantially all of these amounts will be used to repay certain intercompany indebtedness, to pay the US transition tax, and to fund capital expansion projects.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended June 29, 2019 were $685.2 million, compared to $745.2 million and $761.0 million for the fiscal quarters ended March 30, 2019 and June 30, 2018, respectively.10.1 Credit Agreement, dated as of June 5, 2019 among Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders and other parties thereto.