fls.txt



item1.txt
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
Upon adoption of the ASU, the Company will recognize lease assets and liabilities for its operating leases which are not currently reported on its consolidated balance sheets.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts.
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.
2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period.
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer.


item2.txt
On August 2, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan, authorizing us to repurchase, in the aggregate, up to $150 million of our outstanding common stock.
The stock repurchase plan does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and it may be terminated or suspended at any time at the Company's direction in accordance with the plan.
The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million since the inception of this plan.
As part of the amendment and restatement of the revolving credit facility in December 2015, we completed an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, with consideration of the amount of cash that can be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
Our cost reduction programs are more fully described in Note 4 to the consolidated condensed financial statements included in Item 1, and in "Cost Management" below.
See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
We experienced a continued high level of demand in virtually all end-markets in the first fiscal quarter of 2018.
Net revenues increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter.
The strong order levels of 2017 continued in the first fiscal quarter of 2018 and resulted in continued strong metrics and an increase in nearly all key financial metrics compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter.
Net revenues for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $716.8 million, compared to $673.5 million and $604.8 million for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2017 and April 1, 2017, respectively.
The net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $62.4 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to net loss attributable to Vishay stockholders of $(177.7) million, or $(1.23) per share for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017, and net earnings attributable to Vishay stockholders of $36.7 million, or $0.24 per diluted share for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2017.
We define adjusted net earnings as net earnings determined in accordance with GAAP adjusted for various items that management believes are not indicative of the intrinsic operating performance of our business.
We define free cash as the cash flows generated from continuing operations less capital expenditures plus net proceeds from the sale of property and equipment.
Although the term "free cash" is not defined in GAAP, each of the elements used to calculate free cash for the year-to-date period is presented as a line item on the face of our consolidated condensed statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with GAAP and the quarterly amounts are derived from the year-to-date GAAP statements as of the beginning and end of the respective quarter.
Our results for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, 2018, December 31, 2017, and April 1, 2017 represent the effects of a strong business environment and order activity, our cost reduction programs, and our organic growth initiatives.


item3.txt



item4.txt
10.1   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Europe GmbH (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Lori Lipcaman.


part2.txt
10.1   Employment Agreement, dated February 15, 2018, between Vishay Europe GmbH (an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.), Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., and Lori Lipcaman.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our current report on Form 8-K, filed on February 16, 2018.


