fls.txt



item1.txt
The financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company reports interim financial information for 13-week periods beginning on a Sunday and ending on a Saturday, except for the first fiscal quarter, which always begins on January 1, and the fourth fiscal quarter, which always ends on December 31.
The ASU is the result of a convergence project between the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue and to develop a common revenue standard for GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards.
The ASU removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements; provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues; improves comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities, industries, jurisdictions, and capital markets; provides more useful information to users of financial statements through expanded disclosure requirements; and simplifies the preparation of financial statements by reducing the number of requirements to which an entity must refer.
The adoption of the ASU did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations.
The Company is currently evaluating the effect of the ASU on its lease contracts.
Except for the changes described in "Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance" above and in this section below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies described in its Note 1 to its audited consolidated financial statement included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, to all periods presented in these consolidated condensed financial statements.
Upon adoption of ASU 2014-09, the Company considers its warranty obligations as service-type warranties and allocates a portion of the estimated consideration to be received from the related contract to the service-type warranty performance obligation and recognizes the related revenue over the warranty period.
The impact of accounting for service-type warranties as separate performance obligations was not significant in the retrospective adoption period and is included in the tables below.
The Company previously recognized revenue when the sales process was completed, which generally occurred when the product was delivered and risk of loss was transferred to the customer.


item2.txt
The quarterly cash dividend was increased by 26% to $0.085 per share in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
The Company repurchased 2,250,236 shares of stock for $39.9 million pursuant to the stock repurchase plan that expired on June 1, 2018.
We used the net proceeds from the issuance of these notes to repurchase $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amount of convertible senior debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively.
We recognized a loss of $17.3 million due to the early extinguishment of the repurchased convertible senior debentures.
As part of the amendment and restatement of the revolving credit facility in December 2015, we completed an evaluation of our anticipated domestic cash needs over the next several years and our most efficient use of liquidity, with consideration of the amount of cash that can be repatriated to the U.S. efficiently with lesser withholding taxes in foreign jurisdictions.
As a result of the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("TCJA") in December 2017, we terminated the aforementioned cash repatriation plan and replaced it with a plan to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of unremitted foreign earnings in Israel, Germany, Austria, and France in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2017.
As a result of additional analysis completed in the second fiscal quarter of 2018, we adjusted the amount of foreign unremitted earnings available from Israel, Germany, Austria, and France to approximately $1.2 billion and accrued additional provisional tax expense.
Substantially all of these amounts were used to reduce the outstanding balance of the credit facility and to repay certain intercompany indebtedness.
The provisional tax expense recorded in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to the enactment of the TCJA included these amounts paid in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
Additionally, we continue to closely monitor our costs, inventory, and capital resources to respond to changing conditions and to ensure we have the management, business processes, and resources to meet our future needs.
See additional information regarding our competitive strengths and key challenges as disclosed in Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.
We utilize several financial metrics, including net revenues, gross profit margin, segment operating income, end-of-period backlog, book-to-bill ratio, inventory turnover, change in average selling prices, net cash and short-term investments (debt), and free cash generation to evaluate the performance and assess the future direction of our business.
We experienced a continued high level of demand in virtually all end-markets in the second fiscal quarter of 2018.
Net revenues increased significantly versus the prior fiscal quarter and the prior year quarter.
The strong order levels of 2017 continued in the first six fiscal months of 2018 and resulted in continued strong metrics and an increase in nearly all key financial metrics compared to the prior quarter and prior year quarter.


item3.txt
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings.
Except as described below, there have been no material changes to the risk factors we previously disclosed under Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018.


item4.txt
4.2     Form of Global Note, representing Vishay Intertechnology, Inc.'s 2.25% Senior Convertible Notes due 2025 (included as Exhibit A to the Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1).


part2.txt
Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, filed with the SEC on February 16, 2018 and Item 1 of Part II of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 8, 2018 describe certain of our legal proceedings.
The liquidity of any trading market that currently exists for our convertible senior debentures may be adversely affected by the repurchase of $220.0 million and $69.1 million principal amounts of the convertible debentures due 2040 and due 2042, respectively, during the second fiscal quarter of 2018, and the holders of the remaining convertible debentures may be more likely to present their convertible debentures for conversion.


