fls.txt



item1.txt
Simulations Plus, Inc.
As contemplated by the SEC under Article 3 of Regulation S-X, the accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been condensed and therefore do not contain all disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles.
Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those to be expected for the full year.
These estimates and assumptions are affected by management’s application of accounting policies.
Significant accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, accounting for capitalized computer software development costs, valuation of stock options, and accounting for income taxes.
Certain numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
Other software modifications result in new, additional-cost modules that expand the functionality of the software.
These are licensed separately.
Generally, we enter into one-year license agreements with customers for the use of our pharmaceutical software products.
We recognize revenue on these contracts when all the criteria are met.
Certain of the Company's software products are housed and supported on the Company's computer networks.
Software revenues for those products are included in income over the life of the contract.
Our multiple-deliverable arrangements consist of consulting arrangements at our DILIsym subsidiary.


item2.txt
Item 2.
We generate revenue by delivering relevant, cost-effective software and creative and insightful consulting services.
In June 2017, Simulation Plus acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 1, 2017.
On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
As such, DILIsym can be a single program that addresses a wide variety of molecules across various companies, while NAFLDsym requires customizing the software for each mechanism of action.
GastroPlus mechanistically simulates the absorption, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and drug-drug interactions of compounds administered to humans and animals and is currently the most widely used commercial software of its type by pharmaceutical companies, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH), and other government agencies in the U.S. and other countries.
Because of the widespread use of GastroPlus, we were the only non-European company invited to join the European Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) program for Oral Bioavailability Tools (OrBiTo).
The objective of this agreement was to provide a tool for generic companies and the FDA to assess the likely bioequivalence of generic drug formulations dosed to the eye.
Under this RCA, we received up to $200,000 per year.
This RCA could be renewed for up to a total of three years based on the progress achieved during the project.
In addition to the two funded efforts with the FDA described above, we also have an unfunded RCA with the FDA’s Office of Generic Drugs (OGD) that began in 2014.
DDDPlus mechanistically simulates in vitro (laboratory) experiments that measure the rate of dissolution of a drug as well as, if desired, the additives (excipients) in a particular dosage form (e.g., powder, tablet, capsule, or injectable solids) under a variety of experimental conditions.
Similar to DDDPlus, MembranePlus mechanistically simulates laboratory experiments, but in this case, the experiments are for measuring permeability of drug-like molecules through various membranes, including several different standard cell cultures (Caco-2, MDCK), as well as artificially formulated membranes (PAMPA).
We believe the potential number of eventual users for PKPlus is in the thousands worldwide and that it has the potential to eventually become a significant revenue producer.


item3.txt
As of May 31, 2018 and August 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $7.22 million and $6.22 million, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


