fls.txt



item1.txt
Simulations Plus, Inc.
The interim financial data are unaudited; however, in the opinion of Simulations Plus, Inc. ("we", "our", "us"), the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those to be expected for the full year.
On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Certain numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
Other software modifications result in new, additional cost modules that expand the functionality of the software.
These are licensed separately.
We consider the modifications that are provided without charge to be minimal, as they do not significantly change the basic functionality or utility of the software, but rather add convenience, such as being able to plot some additional variable on a graph in addition to the numerous variables that had been available before, or adding some additional calculations to supplement the information provided from running the software.
Such software modifications for any single product have typically occurred once or twice per year, sometimes more, sometimes less.
Generally, we enter into one-year license agreements with customers for the use of our pharmaceutical software products.
We recognize revenue on these contracts when all the criteria are met.
Therefore, revenue is recognized one year at a time.
Software revenues for those products are included in income over the life of the contract.
We recognize revenue on sales of our DILIsym Subsidiary in accordance with ASC 605-25, “Revenue Recognition, Multiple-Element Arrangements”.


item2.txt
Item 2.
Through the integration of Cognigen into Simulations Plus, Simulations Plus became also a leading provider of population modeling and simulation contract research services for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions.
We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity.
The acquisition of DILIsym positions the Company as the leading provider of Drug Induced Liver Injury (DILI) modeling and simulation software and contract research services.
As such, DILIsym can be a single program that addresses a wide variety of molecules across various companies, while NAFLDsym requires customizing the software for each mechanism of action.
Both the DILIsym and NAFLDsym software programs require outputs from physiologically based pharmacokinetics (PBPK) software as inputs.
We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents, and are one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of preclinical and clinical consulting services and software.
Our innovations in integrating new and existing science in medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, pharmaceutical science, biology, physiology, and machine learning into our software have made us the leading software provider for PBPK modeling and simulation and for prediction of molecular properties from structure.
We generate revenue by delivering relevant, cost-effective software and creative and insightful consulting services.
Our flagship product, and currently our largest single source of software revenue, is GastroPlus.
The FDA currently has 30 floating GastroPlus licenses shared across various divisions.
We believe our investment to participate in this initiative enabled us to benefit from, and to contribute to, advancing the prediction of human oral bioavailability from preclinical data, and ensured that we are well-known to member pharmaceutical companies and regulatory agencies.


item3.txt
As of November 30, 2017 and August 31, 2017, we had cash and cash equivalents of $7.05 million and $6.22 million, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We are not a party to any legal proceedings and are not aware of any pending legal proceedings of any kind.


