fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
Simulations Plus, Inc.
The interim financial data are unaudited; however, in the opinion of Simulations Plus, Inc. ("we", "our", "us"), the interim data includes all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods.
Results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those to be expected for the full year.
On June 1, 2017, the Company consummated the acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of DILIsym pursuant to the terms of the Stock Agreement, with DILIsym becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
Certain numbers in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.
The standard also provides guidance on the recognition of incremental costs related to obtaining customer contracts.
We adopted ASC Topic 606, effective September 1, 2018, utilizing the modified retrospective method.
Most of our contracts are of a duration of one year or less, few, if any of the longer-term contracts have commissions associated with them.
ASC 606 provides certain practical expedients that limit the requirement to disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations.
The Company applied the practical expedient to not disclose the amount of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied performance obligations when the performance obligation is part of a contract that has an original expected duration of one year or less.
For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Accounts receivable are written off when all collection attempts have failed.


item2.txt
Item 2.
The forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this document are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We are a global leader focused on improving the ways scientists use knowledge and data to predict the properties and outcomes of pharmaceutical and biotechnology agents, and are one of only two global companies who provide a wide range of early discovery, preclinical, and clinical consulting services and software.
We generate revenue by delivering relevant, cost-effective software and creative and insightful consulting services.
Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies use our software programs and scientific consulting services to guide early drug discovery (molecule design and screening), preclinical, and clinical development programs.
Simulations Plus previously acquired Cognigen Corporation (Cognigen) as a wholly owned subsidiary.
Our clinical-pharmacology-based consulting services include pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic modeling, clinical trial simulations, data programming, and technical writing services in support of regulatory submissions.
We have also developed software for harnessing cloud-based computing in support of modeling and simulation activities and secure data archiving, and we provide consulting services to improve interdisciplinary collaborations and research and development productivity.
Simulation Plus also acquired DILIsym Services, Inc. (DILIsym) as a wholly owned subsidiary.
Our flagship product, originally introduced in 1998, and currently our largest single source of software revenue, is GastroPlus.
Because we are outside of the European Union, our participation in this project was at our own expense, while other members were compensated for their work; however, we were a full member with access to all of the data and discussions of all other members.
We believe our investment to participate in this initiative enabled us to benefit from, and to contribute to, advancing the prediction of human oral bioavailability from preclinical data, and ensured that we are well-known to member pharmaceutical companies and regulatory agencies.


item3.txt
As of November 30, 2018 and August 31, 2018, we had cash and cash equivalents of $9.35 million and $9.40 million, respectively.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


