ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and our results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and with the consolidated financial statements and management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 13, 2019.
This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.
Our actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed under the caption “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, and in Part II, Item 1A -“Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report.
See also “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report.
Overview
A large percentage of our products are ICs used in AC-DC power supplies, which convert the high-voltage AC from a wall outlet to the low-voltage DC required by most electronic devices.
Power supplies incorporating our products are used with all manner of electronic products including mobile phones, computing and networking equipment, appliances, electronic utility meters, power tools, industrial controls, and “smart-home,” or “internet of things” applications such as networked thermostats, power strips and other building-automation and security devices.
We also supply high-voltage LED drivers, which are AC-DC ICs specifically designed for lighting applications that utilize light-emitting diodes.
In 2018, we introduced a new category of power-conversion ICs, a family of motor-driver ICs addressing brushless DC (BLDC) motors used in refrigerators, HVAC systems, ceiling fans and other consumer-appliance and light commercial applications.
We also offer high-voltage gate drivers — either standalone ICs or circuit boards containing ICs, electrical isolation components and other circuitry — used to operate high-voltage switches such as insulated-gate bipolar transistors (IGBTs) and silicon-carbide (SiC) MOSFETs.
These combinations of switches and drivers are used for power conversion in high-power applications (i.e., power levels ranging from a few kilowatts up to one gigawatt) such as industrial motors, solar- and wind-power systems, electric vehicles and high-voltage DC transmission systems.
Our products bring a number of important benefits to the power-conversion market compared with less advanced alternatives, including reduced component count and design complexity, smaller size, higher reliability and reduced time-to-market.
Our products also improve the energy efficiency of power converters, helping our customers meet the increasingly stringent efficiency standards that have been adopted around the world for many electronic products, and improving the efficacy of renewable-energy systems, electric vehicles and other high-power applications.
•Increase our penetration of the markets we serve.
We currently address AC-DC applications with power outputs up to approximately 500 watts, gate-driver applications of approximately ten kilowatts and higher, and motor-drive applications up to approximately 300 watts.
Through our research and development efforts, we seek to introduce more advanced products for these markets offering higher levels of integration and performance compared to earlier products.
We also continue to expand our sales and application-engineering staff and our network of distributors, as well as our offerings of technical documentation and design-support tools and services to help customers use our products.
These tools and services include our PI Expert™ design software, which we offer free of charge, and our transformer-sample service.
Our market-penetration strategy also includes capitalizing on the importance of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the power conversion market.
For example, our EcoSmart™ technology drastically reduces the amount of energy consumed by electronic products when they are not in use, helping our customers comply with regulations that seek to curb this so-called “standby” energy consumption.
Also, our gate-driver products are critical components in energy-efficient DC motor drives, high-voltage DC transmission systems, solar and wind energy systems and electric transportation applications.
•Increase the size of our addressable market.
Prior to 2010 our addressable market consisted of AC-DC applications with up to about 50 watts of output, a served available market (“SAM”) opportunity of approximately $1.5 billion.
Since that time we have expanded our SAM to approximately $4 billion through a variety of means.
These include the introduction of products that enable us to address higher-power AC-DC applications (such as our Hiper™ product families), the introduction of LED-driver products, and our entry into the gate-driver market through the acquisition of CT-Concept Technologie AG in 2012.
In 2016 we introduced the SCALE-iDriverTM family of gate-driver ICs, broadening the range of gate-driver applications we can address.
In 2018 we introduced our BridgeSwitch™ motor-driver ICs, as described above.
Also contributing to our SAM expansion has been the emergence of new applications within the power ranges that our products can address.
For example, applications such as “smart” utility meters, battery-powered lawn equipment and bicycles, and USB power receptacles (installed alongside traditional AC wall outlets) can incorporate our products.
The increased use of electronic intelligence and connectivity in consumer appliances has also enhanced our SAM.
Finally, we have enhanced our SAM by increasing the level of integration of our products, which in turn increases their value.
For example, our InnoSwitch™ ICs integrate circuitry from the secondary, or low-voltage, side of AC-DC power supplies, whereas earlier product families integrated circuitry only on the primary, or high-voltage side.
We intend to continue expanding our SAM in the years ahead through all of the means described above.
Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and subject to significant fluctuations.
We plan our production and inventory levels based on internal forecasts of projected customer demand, which are highly unpredictable and can fluctuate substantially.
Customers typically may cancel or reschedule orders on short notice without significant penalty and, conversely, often place orders with very short lead times to delivery.
Also, external factors such as global economic conditions and supply-chain dynamics can cause our operating results to be volatile.
Furthermore, because our industry is intensely price-sensitive, our gross margin (gross profit divided by net revenues) is subject to change based on the relative pricing of solutions that compete with ours.
Variations in product mix, end-market mix and customer mix can also cause our gross margin to fluctuate.
Because we purchase a large percentage of our silicon wafers from foundries located in Japan, our gross margin is influenced by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen.
Changes in the prices of raw materials used in our products, such as copper and gold, can also affect our gross margin.
Although our wafer-fabrication and assembly operations are outsourced, as are most of our test operations, a portion of our production costs are fixed in nature.
As a result, our unit costs and gross margin are impacted by the volume of units we produce.
Recent Results
Our net revenues were $114.2 million and $110.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $306.2 million and $322.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers.
This growth was partially offset by a broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed growth in the communications end market.
Our top ten customers, including distributors that resell to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and merchant power supply manufacturers, accounted for 55% and 54% of our net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and 56% and 57% of net revenues in each of the respective corresponding periods of 2018.
Our top customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for approximately 11% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, and 14% in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018. International sales accounted for 97% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 96% of net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Our gross margin for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 was 51%, and was 52% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018.
The decrease in gross margin was due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix, with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Total operating expenses were $40.6 million and $39.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $121.8 million and $119.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The increases were due primarily to higher salary and related expenses driven by the expansion of our workforce and by annual merit increases; also contributing to the increases were higher expenses related to patent litigation as well as equipment related expenses in support of our product-development efforts.
These increases were partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based awards.
In October, 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with ON Semiconductor to end all outstanding legal and administrative disputes.
Pursuant to the settlement ON Semiconductor agreed to pay us $175.0 million, which is expected to favorably impact our financial results in the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2019.
We expect that the settlement will result in a reduction
of litigation expenses beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
Refer to Note 13, Legal Proceedings and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, for information regarding the settlement.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those listed below.
We base our estimates on historical facts and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time the estimates are made.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
•revenue recognition;
•stock-based compensation;
•estimating write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory;
•income taxes;
•business combinations; and
•goodwill and intangible assets.
Our critical accounting policies are important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, and require us to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain.
There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in “Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in each case in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on February 13, 2019.
Results of Operations
The following table sets forth certain operating data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated.
Comparison of the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2019 and 2018
Net revenues.
Net revenues consist of revenues from product sales, which are calculated net of returns and allowances.
Net revenues for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were $114.2 million and $306.2 million, respectively, and $110.1 million and $322.6 million, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018.
The increase in the three month period was due primarily to growth in the communications end market, driven by increased demand for our products in cellphone chargers.
This growth was partially offset by a broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets resulting from global trade disputes.
Net revenues decreased in the nine-month period as the broad-based decline in demand across the consumer and industrial end markets outweighed the growth in the communications end market.
International sales, consisting of sales outside of the United States of America based on “bill to” customer locations, were $111.3 million and $298.1 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and $105.6 million and $310.6 million, respectively, in the corresponding periods of 2018.
Although power converters using our products are distributed to end markets worldwide, most are manufactured in Asia.
As a result, sales to this region represented 77% of our net revenues in each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, and 77% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018.
We expect international sales, and sales to the Asia region in particular, to continue to account for a large portion of our net revenues in the future.
Sales to distributors accounted for 68% and 73% of net revenues in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, and 76% in each of the corresponding periods of 2018.
Direct sales to OEMs and power-supply manufacturers accounted for the remainder.
In each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, one customer, a distributor of our products, accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues.
 No other customers accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues in these periods.
Gross margin decreased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, compared with the same period in the prior year, due primarily to increased wafer substrate costs along with an unfavorable change in end-market mix with a greater percentage of revenues coming from lower-margin end-markets.
Other income remained relatively constant for the three month periods.
Other income increased in the nine months ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to an increase in interest income reflecting higher yields earned on our cash and investments.
Income-tax expense includes a provision for federal, state and foreign taxes based on the annual estimated effective tax rate applicable to us and our subsidiaries, adjusted for certain discrete items which are fully recognized in the period they occur.
Accordingly, the interim effective tax rate may not be reflective of the annual estimated effective tax rate.
Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were 8.0% and 4.7%, respectively, and 7.6% and 6.3%, respectively, for the corresponding periods of 2018.
The effective tax rate in these periods was lower than the statutory federal income-tax rate of 21% due to the geographic distribution of our world-wide earnings in lower-tax jurisdictions, the impact of federal research tax credits and the recognition of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments.
These benefits were partially offset by U.S. tax on foreign income, known as global intangible low-taxed income.
The primary jurisdiction from which our foreign earnings are derived is the Cayman Islands, which is a non-taxing jurisdiction.
Income earned in other foreign jurisdictions was not material.
We have not been granted any incentivized tax rates and do not operate under any tax holidays in any jurisdiction.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of September 30, 2019, we had $244.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities, an increase of approximately $16.2 million from $228.6 million as of December 31, 2018.
As of September 30, 2019, we had working capital, defined as current assets less current liabilities, of $325.0 million, an increase of approximately $40.9 million from $284.1 million as of December 31, 2018.
Operating activities generated cash of $42.3 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Net income for this period was $35.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization and deferred income taxes of $15.0 million, $14.3 million, $3.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively.
Sources of cash also included a $1.1 million increase in taxes payable and accrued liabilities.
These sources of cash were partially offset by a $14.8 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased customer shipments, a $7.9 million increase in inventories reflecting impact of a market slowdown during the first half of the year and anticipation of future demand, a $2.6 million decrease in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments, and a $3.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal fees, prepaid taxes and advances to suppliers.
Operating activities generated cash of $65.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
Net income for this period was $47.2 million; we also incurred non-cash stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization of $16.1 million, $14.4 million and $4.0 million, respectively.
Sources of cash also included a $2.9 million decrease in accounts receivable due to the timing of cash receipts and a $2.6 million increase in accounts payable, excluding payables related to property and equipment, due primarily to the timing of payments.
These sources of cash were partially offset by a $17.1 million increase in inventories, partially reflecting lower-than-normal inventory levels at the beginning of the year, but also driven by our decision to build inventory in order to capitalize on extended lead times and limited availability for certain competing products.
Also offsetting the sources of cash was a $2.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, primarily driven by prepaid legal expenses and advances to suppliers.
Our investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, resulted in an $83.8 million net use of cash, primarily consisting of $69.1 million for purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, and $14.3 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our investing activities provided $69.3 million of cash in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, consisting of $89.3 million from sales and maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by $19.1 million for purchases of property and equipment, primarily production-related machinery and equipment.
Our financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2019, resulted in a $12.5 million net use of cash, consisting of $14.9 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders and $7.3 million for the repurchase of our common stock.
These uses of cash were offset in part by $9.7 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
Our financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2018, resulted in an $80.0 million net use of cash, consisting of $74.4 million for the repurchase of our common stock and $14.2 million for the payment of dividends to stockholders.
These uses of cash were offset in part by $8.6 million from the issuance of common stock, including the exercise of employee stock options and the issuance of shares through our employee stock purchase plan.
On July 27, 2016, we entered into a Credit Agreement with a bank (the "Credit Agreement") that provides us with a $75.0 million revolving line of credit to use for general corporate purposes with a $20.0 million sub-limit for the issuance of standby and trade letters of credit.
We amended the Credit Agreement on April 30, 2018, to extend the termination date from July 26, 2019, to April 30, 2022, with all other terms remaining the same.
Our ability to borrow under the revolving line of credit is conditioned upon our compliance with specified covenants, including reporting and financial covenants, primarily a minimum liquidity measure and a debt to earnings ratio, with which we are currently in compliance.
The Credit Agreement terminates on April 30, 2022; all advances under the revolving line of credit will become due on such date, or earlier in the event of a default.
As of September 30, 2019, $6.2 million was reserved against the available credit in the form a standby letter of credit.
No advances were outstanding under the agreement as of September 30, 2019.
In January 2018, our board of directors declared four cash dividends in the amount of $0.16 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2018.
We paid a total of $18.8 million in cash dividends in 2018.
In January 2019, our board of directors declared four quarterly cash dividends in the amount of $0.17 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2019. Dividend payouts of $4.9 million, $5.0 million and $5.0 million occurred on March 29, 2019, June 28, 2019, and September 30, 2019, respectively.
In October 2019, our board of directors raised the cash dividend per share with the declaration five cash dividends, consisting of (a) a dividend in the amount of $0.02 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of the fourth quarter in 2019, which is in addition to the dividend in the amount of $0.17 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of the fourth quarter in 2019 previously declared by the board in January 2019, and (b) a dividend in the amount of $0.19 per share to be paid to stockholders of record at the end of each quarter in 2020.
The declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors, as well as a determination that cash dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders.
As of December 31, 2018, we had approximately $51.2 million remaining under our stock-repurchase program.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2019 we repurchased approximately 121,000 shares of our common stock for approximately $7.3 million.
As of September 30, 2019, we had approximately $43.9 million remaining in our repurchase program, which has no expiration date.
Authorization of future repurchase programs is at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors.
As of September 30, 2019, we had a contractual obligation related to income tax, which consisted primarily of unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $20.2 million.
A portion of the tax obligation is classified as long-term income taxes payable and a portion is recorded in deferred tax assets in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
As of September 30, 2019, there were no material changes in our contractual commitments from those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
If our operating results deteriorate during the remainder of 2019 as a result of a decrease in customer demand, pricing pressure, or other factors, our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations may be jeopardized.
In that case, we may be forced to use our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, use our credit agreement or seek additional financing from third parties to fund our operations.
We believe that cash generated from operations, together with existing sources of liquidity, will satisfy our projected working capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months.
Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements
As of September 30, 2019, we did not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements or relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which are typically established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
