ITEM 4.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Limitation on Effectiveness of Controls
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance as to the tested objectives.
The design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and
there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote.
The inherent limitations in any control system include the realities that judgments related to decision-making can be faulty, and that reduced effectiveness in controls can occur because of simple errors or mistakes.
Due to the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error may occur and may not be detected.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
Management is required to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”).
Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on our management’s evaluation (with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer), our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act) were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended March 31, 2018, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting.
