item1.txt
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of ClearOne and its subsidiaries.
Certain information and footnote disclosures that are usually included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) have been either condensed or omitted in accordance with SEC rules and regulations.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full-year period.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There have been no changes to these policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in accounting for leases as described below.
Net cash used in operating activities was $6,570 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019, an increase of cash used of $2,989 from $3,581 of cash used in operating activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
We occupy a 5,000 square-foot facility in Gainesville, Florida under the terms of an operating lease that expires in February 2021 with the possibility of renewing the lease for 10 more years.
The Gainesville facility is used primarily to support our research and development activities.
We currently occupy a 21,443 square-foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2024, with an option to extend for additional five years.
The facility supports our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
We occupied a 10,700 square-foot warehouse in Shenzhen, China under the terms of an operating lease, that expired in September 2019, which served as manufacturing support center for Asia.


item2.txt
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
In August 2019, the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued patent number 10,397,697 to ClearOne. This patent, entitled “Band-Limited Beamforming Microphone Array,” describes a method, among other things, of making or using a band-limited beamforming microphone array by augmenting beamformed audio signals with additional audio signals that are not included in the beamforming process.
In that litigation, ClearOne asserts that Shure’s MXA910 Ceiling Array Microphone, which competes with ClearOne’s beamforming microphone array products, infringes certain of ClearOne’s patents.
The Court held that ClearOne established that "Shure is likely infringing the ’806 Patent and [that Shure] has not raised a substantial question of the patent’s validity.” The injunction order prohibits Shure from “manufacturing, marketing, and selling the MXA910 to be used in its drop-ceiling mounting configuration, including marketing and selling the MXA910 in a way that encourages or allows integrators to install it in a drop-ceiling mounting configuration." 
Overall revenue declined in the third quarter of 2019 when compared to the third quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except microphones.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
The net loss in the third quarter of 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.
Overall revenue declined in the first nine months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents — which is improperly forcing the Company to compete against its own patented technology — is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
We believe the revenue decline in video products was caused partially by increased competition in the space as well as due to reduced attention from our partners caused by the alternatives made available through infringement of our patents.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and reduction of higher margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix.
The net loss in 2018 included about $7.8 million in tax expenses due to recording of a valuation allowance as we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were not realizable primarily due to the Company's continuing pre-tax losses.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third-party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
On February 15, 2019, the Company filed a petition for inter partes review of Shure’s U.S. Patent No. 9,565,493 (“’493 Patent”), arguing that all claims of the ’493 Patent should be cancelled in light of several prior art references, including ClearOne’s U.S. Patent No. 9,813,806 (the “’806 Patent”).
Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019.


