item1.txt
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There have been no changes to these policies during the six months ended June 30, 2019 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in accounting for leases as described below.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
We occupy a 5,000 square-foot facility in Gainesville, Florida under the terms of an operating lease that expires in February 2021 with the possibility of renewing the lease for 10 more years.
We currently occupy a 21,443 square-foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2024, with an option to extend for additional five years.
The facility supports our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
We occupy a 10,700 square-foot warehouse in Shenzhen, China under the terms of an operating lease expiring in September 2019, which serves as manufacturing support center for Asia.
We occupy a 7,070 square-foot facility in Austin, Texas - under the terms of an operating lease expiring in October 2019.


item2.txt
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
We also continued our programs to cut costs and to speed up product development that we believe will enable us to get back to a growth path.
Overall revenue declined in the second quarter of 2019 when compared to the second quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
The decrease in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced operating expenses offset by reduced gross profit and tax benefit.
Overall revenue declined in the first six months of 2019 when compared to same period in 2018, with declines seen in all product categories, except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
We believe the revenue decline in video products was caused partially by increased competition in the space as well as due to reduced attention from our partners caused by the alternatives made available through infringement of our patents.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to increased material costs and reduction of higher margin professional audio conferencing products in the revenue mix.
The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced tax benefit and gross profit partially offset by reduced operating expenses.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third-party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
On February 15, 2019, the Company filed a petition for inter partes review of Shure’s U.S. Patent No. 9,565,493 (“’493 Patent”), arguing that all claims of the ’493 Patent should be cancelled in light of several prior art references, including ClearOne’s U.S. Patent No. 9,813,806 (the “’806 Patent”).
Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019.


