item1.txt
The fiscal year for ClearOne is the 12 months ending on December 31.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full-year period.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no changes to these policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in revenue recognition policy described below.
Prior to our change in accounting policy, revenue from product sales to distributors was not recognized until the return privilege had expired or until it can be determined with reasonable certainty that the return privilege had expired, which approximated when the product was sold-through to customers of our distributors (dealers, system integrators, value-added resellers, and end-users), rather than when the product was initially shipped to a distributor.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
The Company evaluates certain factors including the customer’s ability to pay (or credit risk).
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.


item2.txt
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, we continued our serious litigation efforts to stop infringement of two of our strategic patents.
We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines.
We also launched many new products including Collaborate Space, Converge Amplifier and wireless microphone systems in 537-563 MHz range at our industry’s largest trade show in North America.
We have also been focusing on company-wide cost cutting programs and speeding up product development that we believe will enable us to surpass our competitors.
Overall revenue declined in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory.
Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues, and reduced overhead absorption into inventory.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
There have been no material developments in the legal proceedings described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


