item1.txt
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and operating lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Net loss incurred on valuation of inventory at lower of cost or market value and write-off of obsolete inventory during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was $185 and $255, respectively.
We occupy a 5,000 square-foot facility in Gainesville, Florida under the terms of an operating lease that expires in February 2021 with the possibility of renewing the lease for 10 more years.
The Gainesville facility was used primarily to support our research and development activities.
We currently occupy a 21,443 square-foot facility in Salt Lake City, Utah under the terms of an operating lease expiring in March 2024, with an option to extend for additional five years.
The facility supports our principal administrative, sales, marketing, customer support, and research and product development activities.
We occupy a 7,070 square-foot facility in Austin, Texas - under the terms of an operating lease expiring in October 2019.
This facility support our sales, marketing, customer support, and research and development activities.


item2.txt
ClearOne is a global Company that designs, develops and sells conferencing, collaboration, and AV networking solutions for voice and visual communications.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
Overall revenue declined in the first quarter of 2019 when compared to the first quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
We believe the on-going infringement of ClearOne’s patents is the major cause of our revenue decline in the audio conferencing and microphones categories.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory.
The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced gross profit and reduced tax benefit partially offset by reduction in operating expenses.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our installed professional audio conferencing products, which is our flagship product category, continue to be ahead of the competition despite the reduction in revenues.
Our strength in this space is largely due to our fully integrated suite of products consisting of DSP mixers, wide range of professional microphone products and video collaboration products.
Despite our strong leadership position in the installed professional audio conferencing market, we face challenges to revenue growth due to the limited size of the market and pricing pressures from new competitors attracted to the commercial market due to higher margins.
Revenue from our video products are critical to our long-term growth.
We expect our strategy of combining Spontania, our cloud-based video conferencing product, Collaborate, our appliance-based media collaboration product, our high-quality professional cameras, and our high-end audio conferencing technology will generate high growth in the near future.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


