item1.txt
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The significant accounting policies were described in Note 1 to the audited consolidated financial statements included in the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There have been no changes to these policies during the six months ended June 30, 2018 that are of significance or potential significance to the Company except for the change in revenue recognition policy described below.
Prior to our change in accounting policy, revenue from product sales to distributors was not recognized until the return privilege had expired or until it can be determined with reasonable certainty that the return privilege had expired, which approximated when the product was sold-through to customers of our distributors (dealers, system integrators, value-added resellers, and end-users), rather than when the product was initially shipped to a distributor.
At each quarter-end, we evaluated the inventory in the distribution channel through information provided by our distributors.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
Sales agreements with customers are renewable periodically and contain terms and conditions with respect to payment, delivery, warranty and supply, but typically do not require mandatory purchase commitments.
In the absence of a sales agreement, the Company’s standard terms and conditions at the time of acceptance of purchase orders apply.
The Company considers the customer purchase orders, governed by sales agreements or the Company’s standard terms and conditions, to be the contract with the customer.
The Company evaluates certain factors including the customer’s ability to pay (or credit risk).
In determining the transaction price, the Company evaluates whether the price is subject to refund or adjustment to determine the net consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled.
Sales to distributors, are typically made pursuant to agreements that provide return rights with respect to discontinued or slow-moving products, referred to as stock rotation.
Sales to distributors can also be subject to price adjustment on certain products, primarily for distributors with drop-shipping rights.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation.


item2.txt
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
In June 2018, at our industry’s largest trade show in North America, we introduced new audio products including significant additions to our CONVERGE® 2 audio conferencing platform, ceiling microphone array product line, and wireless microphone systems in the newly FCC allocated 537-563 MHz range.
During the six months ended June 30, 2018 seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us.
While focusing on strategic innovation that we believe will strengthen our competitive position, and accelerated product development, we have also planned and initiated a company-wide cost cutting programs.
Overall revenue declined in the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the three months and six months ended June 30, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Gross profit margin decreased primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory as we continue to reduce our net spend on inventory.
Gross profit margin decrease was primarily due to an increase in inventory obsolescence costs, a decline in licensing revenues and due to reduced overhead absorption into inventory.
The proportion of overhead costs absorbed into inventory has declined due to a sharp decline in our inventory purchasing activity causing increased amounts of overhead costs to be expensed.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
The adoption of Beamforming Microphone Array 2, along with Converge Pro 2, our new platform for professional audio conferencing, remains challenged in large part because of our competitors’ product offering that directly infringes our strategic patents.
The patent infringement also has had a material adverse effect on our revenue from ClearOne’s other products like wireless microphones, ceiling microphones and video products.


item4.txt
Management identified a material weakness in the operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting relating to the accurate and timely reporting of its financial results and disclosures and its testing and assessment of the design and effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


