Item 1.
Financial Statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 1–Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
On January 26, 2018, the Company entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement with Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. ("Jacobs Group"), whereby the Company purchased 100% of Jacobs Group's 41% outstanding membership interest in MSA.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest (“subsidiaries”) and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying unaudited condensed financial information has been prepared in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis, including those relating to estimated profitability of long-term contracts, indirect billing rates, allowances for doubtful accounts, inventories, fair value and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, income taxes, stock-based compensation expense and contingencies.
These estimates have been prepared by management on the basis of the most current and best available information; however, actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
The results reported in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 23, 2018.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The Company classifies indirect costs incurred within or allocated to its U.S. government customers as overhead (included in "Cost of revenues") or general administrative expenses in the same manner as such costs are defined in the Company's disclosure statements under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards ("CAS").
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2018, the Company established a new CAS structure and revised its disclosure statements accordingly to reflect the related cost accounting practice changes.
Consequently, $53 million and $133 million was reclassified from "Cost of revenues" to "Selling, general and administrative expenses" on the condensed consolidated statement of income for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company aggregated "Interest income" and "Interest expense" into "Interest expense, net" and "Acquisition and integration costs" and "Restructuring expenses" into "Integration and restructuring costs" on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Additionally, the Company aggregated "Bad debt expense" and "Other" into "Bad debt expense and other" on the Company's condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Accounting Standards Updates Adopted
ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09 ("ASC 606") and related amendments, which superseded all prior revenue recognition methods and industry-specific guidance.
The core principle of ASC 606 is an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of control for promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
In applying the revenue principles, an entity is required to identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations and recognize revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied (i.e., either over time or point in time).
ASC 606 further requires that companies disclose sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.
ASC 606 provided companies an option of two transition methods, the full retrospective method, in which case the standard would be applied to each prior reporting period presented and the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the earliest period shown, or the modified retrospective method, in which case the cumulative effect of applying the standard would be recognized at the date of initial application.
The ASU was effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017.
Effective December 30, 2017 (the beginning of fiscal 2018), the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method.
The guidance was not applied to contracts that were complete at December 30, 2017, and the comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
As a result of the adoption the Company recorded a $1 million decrease to its beginning accumulated deficit as the cumulative impact of adoption of the new revenue standard.
The primary impact was on certain units-of-delivery contracts, as the Company previously recognized revenue at a point in time when the customer accepted delivery of the product or service.
Under ASC 606, revenues on certain units-of-delivery contracts are now recognized using an over-time model.
The adoption of ASC 606 did not have a significant impact on the Company's revenue recognition policy as revenues on substantially all of the Company's contracts continue to be recognized over time.
In adopting ASC 606, the Company elected to use certain practical expedients permitted by the standard including using the portfolio approach where contracts with similar characteristics were assessed collectively to evaluate risk over the impact of ASC 606.
The Company also elected to adopt the right-to-invoice practical expedient on certain cost-reimbursable contracts where the Company recognizes revenues as it is contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer.
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, which simplifies the application of hedge accounting and improves the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entity's risk management activities.
The ASU is effective for public companies for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be applied on a modified retrospective basis.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-12 using the modified retrospective method during the quarter ended March 30, 2018, and recorded a $3 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit for the cumulative ineffectiveness gains related to the cash flow hedges.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, which allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Act").
This ASU is effective for all entities for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate due to the Tax Act is recognized.
Early adoption is permitted.
The Company early adopted the provisions of ASU 2018-02 during the quarter ended March 30, 2018 (applied in the period of adoption), and recorded a $6 million increase to accumulated other comprehensive income and a corresponding increase to beginning accumulated deficit to reflect the changes in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate as a result of the Tax Act.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2018-02, the Company's policy to release income tax effects in accumulated other comprehensive income is consistent with the underlying book method.
Accounting Standards Updates Issued But Not Yet Adopted
ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-10, Leases (Topic 842)
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, which supersedes the current lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases, to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-02 and ASU 2018-11 "Targeted Improvements", to add an additional and optional transition method to adopt the new leases standard by allowing recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption.
The effective date and transition requirements will be the same as ASU 2016-02.
The Company plans to adopt the new lease accounting standards in fiscal 2019 using the proposed optional transition method and is currently in the process of reviewing lease and other service based contracts, implementing a new lease accounting and administration software solution, establishing new processes and internal controls.
The Company has elected to adopt certain practical expediencies provided under ASC 842, including the option to not apply lease recognition for short-term leases, reassessment of whether expired or existing contracts contain leases, reassessment of lease classification for expired or existing leases, applying single discount rate to a portfolio of leased assets with similar durations, reassessing initial direct costs and combining lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements.
The potential impact on the consolidated financial statements will largely be based on the present value of future minimum lease payments, the amount of which will depend upon the population of leases in effect at the date of adoption.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 3–Significant Accounting Policies
Revenue Recognition
The Company's revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
The Company also serves various state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers.
Most of the Company's contracts are comprised of multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services.
In all cases, the Company assesses if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation.
The Company generally separates multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or require significant integration or customization within a group, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
The Company's contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
The Company accounts for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
The Company excludes any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
Certain of the Company's cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
The Company estimates variable consideration at the most probable amount that it expects to be entitled to, based on the assessment of the contractual variable fee criteria, complexity of work and related risks, extent of customer discretion, amount of variable consideration received historically and the potential of significant reversal of revenue.
The Company allocates the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The standalone selling price of the Company's performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR.
For certain product sales, the Company uses prices from other standalone sales.
Substantially all of the Company's contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company recognizes revenue on its service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the Company performs the promised services.
For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process.
Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to the Company.
Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred.
In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, the Company recognizes revenue at a point in time when the customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession and legal title.
For certain performance obligations, the Company is not primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the goods or service to the customer, does not have inventory risk and does not have discretion in establishing the price for the goods or service.
In such cases, the Company recognizes revenue on a net basis.
Contract costs generally include direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, and indirect costs identifiable with or allocable to a specific contract.
Costs are expensed as incurred except for costs incurred during the transition phase of a new contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected life of that contract.
The Company does not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA") (see "Note 20–Contingencies").
Changes in Estimates on Contracts
The impact on diluted EPS attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $18 million and $84 million, respectively.
The changes primarily relate to revisions of variable consideration, including award fees, and revisions to estimates at completion resulting from changes in contract scope, mitigation of contract risks or due to true-ups of contract estimates at the end of contract performance.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market funds and bank deposits, with original maturity of three months or less.
The Company includes outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents" and correspondingly increases "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
At September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the Company included $46 million and $169 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
Receivables
The Company's receivables include amounts billed and currently due from customers, amounts billable where the right to consideration is unconditional and amounts unbilled.
Amounts billable and unbilled amounts are recognized at estimated realizable value and consist of costs and fees, substantially all of which are expected to be billed and collected generally within one year.
Unbilled amounts also include rate variances that are billable upon negotiation of final indirect rates with the DCAA.
When events or conditions indicate that amounts outstanding from customers may become uncollectible, an allowance is estimated and recorded.
Amounts billed and collected on contracts but not yet recorded as revenue because the Company has not performed its obligation under the arrangement with a customer are deferred and included within "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" or "Other long-term liabilities" on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Dual Reporting
Balance Sheet
Income Statement
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The changes reflected above were primarily due to the Company's units-of-delivery contracts, which were recognized at a point in time under ASC 605 and are recognized using an over-time model under ASC 606.
Remaining Performance Obligations
Remaining performance obligations represent the expected value of exercised contracts, both funded and unfunded, less revenue recognized to date.
Remaining performance obligations do not include unexercised option periods and future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ contracts.
As of September 28, 2018, the Company had $10.8 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $2.4 billion, $5.2 billion and $3.2 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020 and thereafter, respectively.
Disaggregation of Revenues
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer-type, contract-type and geographic location for each of its reportable segments.
These categories represent how the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows are affected by the U.S. government procurement environment.
The majority of the Company's revenues is generated from U.S. government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to other contractors.
Revenues from the U.S. government can be adversely impacted by spending caps or changes in budgetary priorities of the U.S. government, as well as delays in program start dates or the award of a contract.
Government spending levels for the DoD may be impacted by spending priorities as a result of competing demands for federal funds.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company's international business operations are subject to additional and different risks than its U.S. business.
Failure to comply with U.S government laws and regulations applicable to international business, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations, could have an adverse impact on the Company's business with the U.S. government.
In some countries, there is an increased chance for economic, legal or political changes that may adversely affect the performance of the Company's services, sales of products or repatriation of profits.
International transactions can also involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange variability, imposition of tariffs or additional taxes and restrictive trade policies, and delays or failure to collect amounts due to differing legal systems.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 5–Contract Assets and Liabilities
Contract assets include unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
Contract assets also include transition costs and project assets.
Transition costs represent costs that are incurred under certain service based contracts, usually at the beginning of the contract performance, to transition the services, employees and equipment from the customer or prior contractor.
Project assets represent assets that are specific to contracts.
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue.
The decrease in unbilled receivables was primarily due to the timing of billings and revenue recognized on certain contracts.
The increase in transition costs and project assets was primarily due to purchases on certain contracts partially offset by amortization.
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to timing of advance payments from customers partially offset by revenue recognized during the period.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $37 million and $164 million, respectively, relating to amounts that were included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company recognized $43 million and $83 million of amortization, respectively, related to its transition costs and project assets.
The Company did not recognize any impairment losses on contract assets for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
During the quarter ended June 29, 2018, a tax indemnification liability of $23 million was paid to Lockheed Martin in accordance with the Tax Matters Agreement, which was presented as cash flows from financing activities in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows.
These acquisition and integration costs have been recorded within Corporate and presented in "Integration and restructuring costs" on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Commercial Cybersecurity Business
The planned disposition does not represent a strategic shift in operations that will have a material effect on the Company's operations and financial results, and accordingly was not presented as discontinued operations.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Plainfield Renewable Energy Holdings LLC
On July 24, 2015, the Company completed the sale of its equity interest in Plainfield Renewable Energy Holdings LLC ("Plainfield") for an aggregate consideration of $102 million, subject to certain adjustments and contingent earn-out payments.
The consideration received by the Company at closing consisted of a cash payment of $29 million and a secured promissory note for $73 million, net of discount (the "Note").
During the quarter ended March 31, 2017, the Company collected $6 million of principal and interest on the Note.
During the quarter ended June 30, 2017, Plainfield exercised the first of three one-year term extension options available under the original credit agreement, thereby extending the maturity date of the Note to July 24, 2018.
Concurrent with this extension, the interest rate on the Note increased from 6% to 8%.
Also, during the quarter ended June 30, 2017, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an amendment to the Note allowing Plainfield to defer up to $4 million of the interest and principal payments due in July 2017 and January 2018 until July 2018.
In consideration of this deferment, Leidos received certain concessions and releases from obligations under the original transaction documents.
In January 2018, the Company entered into negotiations with the equity owners of Plainfield regarding the Plainfield Recapitalization Plan ("Plan").
The Plan envisioned raising new equity combined with reduction of Plainfield's debt.
The net realizable value of the Note at December 29, 2017, was estimated to be approximately $40 million, compared to its carrying value of $73 million, including accrued interest.
As a result, the Company recorded a $33 million impairment of its Note during the quarter ended December 29, 2017, which was presented within "Other income, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statement of income.
On July 12, 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an additional amendment to the Note, allowing Plainfield to defer the maturity of the Note until the earlier of August 24, 2018, or the date Plainfield successfully closed on a refinancing agreement with a third party.
Under the terms of the agreement, if Plainfield successfully refinanced the Note prior to August 24, 2018, Leidos would allow Plainfield to settle the Note in full for $40 million plus 50% of additional net proceeds obtained by Plainfield.
On August 23, 2018, Leidos and Plainfield entered into an agreement with respect to the final payoff of the Note.
As a result, the Company received proceeds of $40 million in full satisfaction of Plainfield’s obligations under the Note.
As of September 28, 2018, Leidos has recognized a total of $55 million of expense in connection with these restructuring activities.
These restructuring expenses have been recorded within Corporate and presented in "Integration and restructuring costs" on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Accumulated goodwill impairment losses were $369 million and $117 million included within the Health and Civil segments, respectively, at September 28, 2018, December 29, 2017, and December 30, 2016.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at the beginning of the fourth quarter and during interim periods whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
There were no goodwill impairments during the nine months ended September 28, 2018, and September 29, 2017.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Amortization expense was $50 million and $151 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $76 million and $212 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
Program and contract intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows.
Customer relationships and backlog intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Software and technology intangible assets are amortized either on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows, as deemed appropriate.
Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment
Depreciation expense was $14 million and $42 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $16 million and $42 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
On July 23, 2018, the Company entered into a Contract of Sale to sell and lease back one of its properties included within Corporate.
The sale is expected to be completed during fiscal 2018 at which time the leaseback term will begin.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2020.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, the Company determined that the carrying amount of a real estate property may not be recoverable and as a result recorded an impairment charge of $7 million, which was recorded within Corporate.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 12–Fair Value Measurements
The accounting guidance for fair value measurements requires that the Company maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in determining fair value.
The accounting guidance provides for the irrevocable option to elect, on a contract-by-contract basis, to measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value at inception of the contract and record any subsequent changes in fair value in earnings.
The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities.
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.5 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments").
The fair value of the fair value interest rate swaps and cash flow interest rate swaps is determined based on observed values for underlying interest rates on the LIBOR yield curve and the underlying interest rate, respectively (Level 2 inputs).
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's notes receivable of $24 million and $63 million as of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, respectively, approximates fair value as the stated interest rates within the agreements are consistent with the current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
As of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, the fair value of debt was $3.1 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, and the carrying amount was $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively (see "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
At March 30, 2018, the Company had a real estate property measured at fair value (Level 2), which resulted in an impairment charge of $7 million (see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
The Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at September 28, 2018.
The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
The Company does not hold derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
For fixed rate borrowings, the Company uses variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings.
These swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The cash flows associated with the interest rate swaps are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Fair Value Hedge
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the "Notes").
The objective of these instruments is to hedge the Notes against changes in fair value due to the variability in the six-month LIBOR rate (the benchmark interest rate).
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness.
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date.
Cash Flow Hedges
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of a portion of its variable rate senior secured term loans (the "Variable Rate Loans").
The objective of these instruments is to reduce variability in the forecasted interest payments of the Company's Variable Rate Loans, which are based on the LIBOR rate.
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive monthly variable interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate.
In February 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of an additional $250 million of its Variable Rate Loans.
The interest rate swap agreements on $1.1 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans had a maturity date of December 2021 and a fixed interest rate of 1.08%.
The interest rate swap agreements on $300 million and $250 million of the Company's Variable Rate Loans both had a maturity date of August 2022 and fixed interest rates of 1.66% and 2.59%, respectively.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
In September 2018, the Company terminated its existing interest rate swaps.
The net derivative gain of $60 million related to the discontinued cash flow hedge will continue to be reported within accumulated other comprehensive income and will be reclassified into earnings over the remaining life of the original hedge as the hedged variable rate debt impacts earnings.
The Company expects to reclassify gains of $11 million from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings during the next 12 months.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
In August 2018, Leidos amended its senior secured term loans and revolving credit facility agreements.
These amendments modified the margin range for the revolving credit facility and Term Loan A loans and extended their maturity dates by one year to August 2023.
The amendments also extended the maturity date of Term Loan B by two years to August 2025 and delayed the scheduled increase in quarterly principal payments for Term Loan A by one year to March 2021.
Additionally, the Senior Secured Leverage ratio calculation was amended and now excludes the lesser of $350 million and the Company's unrestricted cash and cash equivalents.
In March 2018, Leidos amended the terms of its senior secured $1.1 billion Term Loan B.
As a result, the margin on Term Loan B was reduced by 25 basis points to 1.75%.
The repricing of the term loan became effective March 15, 2018.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.25% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis.
At September 28, 2018, the current margin on Term Loan A was 1.50%.
The Company made required quarterly principal payments on its senior secured term loans of $15 million and $46 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $20 million and $61 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in the Company's credit agreements.
In addition to the required payments on its term loans, the Company prepaid $105 million and $130 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio.
The maturity date of this credit facility is August 2023.
As of September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
In connection with the August 2018 amendments, the Company incurred $5 million of debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and revolving credit facility, which were recorded as an offset against the carrying value of debt and capitalized within "Other assets", respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Amortization of the debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility was $2 million and $8 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $3 million and $10 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
The senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed and contain certain customary restrictive covenants, including among other things, restrictions on the Company's ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances.
The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 28, 2018.
Note 15–Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
Reclassifications from unrecognized gain on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
Note 16–Earnings Per Share ("EPS")
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company made open market repurchases of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $62 million and $162 million, respectively.
All shares repurchased were immediately retired.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 17–Supplementary Cash Flow Information and Restricted Cash
The restricted cash is recorded within "Inventory, prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The restricted cash primarily comprises of advances from customers that are restricted as to use for certain expenditures related to that customer's contract.
In December 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Act which made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; and (4) limiting the deductibility of certain executive compensation.
For the quarter ended September 28, 2018, the effective tax rate was 13.5% compared to 31.9% for the quarter ended September 29, 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate and a release of the valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforward utilization.
For the nine months ended September 28, 2018, the effective tax rate was 14.3% compared to 30.1% for the nine months ended September 29, 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate, certain tax benefits related to the anticipated sale of the Company's commercial cybersecurity business and a release of the valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforward utilization, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits related to employee stock awards.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company defines its reportable segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), currently its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, manages the operations of the Company for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
The financial performance measures used to evaluate segment performance are revenues and operating income.
As a result, "Interest expense, net," "Other income, net" and "Income tax expense," as reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements are not allocated to the Company's segments.
Under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, indirect costs including depreciation expense are collected in numerous indirect cost pools, which are then collectively allocated to the Company’s reportable segments based on a representative causal or beneficial relationship of the costs in the pool to the costs in the base.
As such, the company does not separately disclose depreciation expense on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM.
Legal Proceedings
MSA Joint Venture
On November 10, 2015, MSA received a final decision by the Department of Energy ("DoE") contracting officer for the Mission Support Contract concluding that certain payments to MSA by the DoE for the performance of IT services by Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. ("LMSI") under a subcontract to MSA constituted alleged affiliate fees in violation of the FAR.
Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology LLC (now known as Leidos Integrated Technology LLC) is a member entity of MSA.
Subsequent to the contracting officer's final decision, MSA, LMSI, and Lockheed Martin Corporation received notice from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Washington that the U.S. government had initiated a False Claims Act investigation into the facts surrounding this dispute, and each of MSA, LMSI and Lockheed Martin Corporation has produced information in response to Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office.
In addition, the U.S. Attorney's office has advised that a parallel criminal investigation is open, although no subjects or targets of the investigation have been identified.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Securities Litigation
Greek Government Contract
In 2003, the Company entered into an FFP contract with the Hellenic Republic of Greece to provide a Command, Control, Communications, Coordination and Integration System.
The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and has not paid the Company's final invoice.
In 2013, the Company received an arbitral award by the International Chamber of Commerce for €39 million, which has not been satisfied.
In January 2017, the U.S. District Court granted an order to enforce the arbitration award and entered judgment in the Company's favor, converting the award to U.S. dollars.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit subsequently ruled that the district court judgment should instead reflect the currency in which it was originally awarded.
Separately, the Greek government has sought to annul the award through separate litigation in the Greek courts, and such a challenge is currently pending.
Based on the complex nature of this contractual situation and the difficulties encountered to date, significant uncertainties exist and the Company is unable to reliably estimate the ultimate outcome.
Arbitration Proceeding
The Company is a party to an arbitration proceeding that is expected to commence in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 involving a claim by Lockheed Martin for indemnification for $56 million in taxes attributable to deferred revenue recognized as a result of the Transactions.
Based on the arguments advanced to date, the Company believes that the claim appears to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself in arbitration.
The Company does not believe that a material loss is probable, and has therefore not recorded any liability for this matter.
We expect a final decision by the arbitration panel to be issued during the first half of fiscal 2019.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Other
The Company is also involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the normal conduct of its business, none of which, in the opinion of the Company's management, based upon current information, will likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Other Contingencies
VirnetX, Inc.
On September 29, 2017, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment in the VirnetX v. Apple case referred to as the Apple I case.
The court found that Apple willfully infringed the VirnetX patents at issue in the Apple I case and awarded enhanced damages, bringing the total award against Apple to over $343 million in pre-interest damages.
The court subsequently awarded an additional sum of over $96 million for costs, attorneys' fees, and interest, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple I case to over $439 million.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
On April 10, 2018, a jury trial concluded in an additional patent infringement case brought by VirnetX against Apple, referred to as the Apple II case, in which the jury returned a verdict against Apple for infringement and awarded VirnetX damages in the amount of over $502 million.
On April 11, 2018, in a second phase of the Apple II trial, the jury found Apple's infringement to be willful.
On August 30, 2018, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment and rulings on post-trial motions in the Apple II case.
The court affirmed the jury’s verdict of over $502 million and granted VirnetX’s motions for supplemental damages, a sunset royalty and royalty rate of $1.20 per infringing device, along with pre-judgment and post-judgment interest and costs.
The court denied VirnetX’s motions for enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, and an injunction.
The court also denied Apple’s motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial.
An additional sum of over $93 million for costs and pre-judgment interest was subsequently agreed upon pursuant to a court order, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple II case to over $595 million.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple II case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The Company does not have any assets or liabilities recorded in connection with this matter as of September 28, 2018.
Government Investigations and Reviews
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States.
Adverse findings could have a material effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows due to its reliance on government contracts.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, pursuant to the resolution of certain government accounting matters, including audits by the DCAA, the Company recorded a net reduction of $8 million and $14 million, respectively, to its accrued liabilities.
Indirect cost audits by the DCAA remain open for fiscal 2016 and subsequent years for Leidos, Inc., and fiscal 2012 and subsequent years for Leidos Innovations.
Although the Company has recorded contract revenues based upon an estimate of costs that the Company believes will be approved upon final audit or review, the Company cannot predict the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments, and if future adjustments exceed the Company's estimates, its profitability may be adversely affected.
As of September 28, 2018, the Company believes it has adequately reserved for potential adjustments from audits or reviews of contract costs.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company has outstanding letters of credit of $84 million as of September 28, 2018, principally related to performance guarantees on contracts.
The Company also has outstanding surety bonds with net exposure of $123 million, principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds on the Company's contracts.
The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds have various terms with the majority expiring over the next four fiscal years.
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed which will function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
We have furnished information relating to legal proceedings, and any investigations and reviews that we are involved with in "Note 20–Contingencies" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
There were no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2017.
