Item 1.
Financial Statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (UNAUDITED) [CONTINUED]
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 1–Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation
The Company has a controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC.
On January 26, 2018, the Company entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement with Jacobs Engineering Group, Inc. ("Jacobs Group"), whereby the Company purchased 100% of Jacobs Group's 41% outstanding membership interest in MSA.
As a result, Leidos increased its controlling ownership in MSA from 47% to 88%.
The Company consolidates the financial results for MSA into its unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements also include the balances of all voting interest entities in which Leidos has a controlling voting interest ("subsidiaries") and a variable interest entity ("VIE") in which Leidos is the primary beneficiary.
The consolidated balances of the Company’s VIE are not material to the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the periods presented.
Intercompany accounts and transactions between consolidated companies have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying unaudited condensed financial information has been prepared in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP").
Certain disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis, including those relating to estimated profitability of long-term contracts, indirect billing rates, allowances for doubtful accounts, inventories, fair value and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, income taxes, stock-based compensation expense and contingencies.
These estimates have been prepared by management on the basis of the most current and best available information; however, actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Effective December 29, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02 using the modified retrospective approach (see "Note 2–Accounting Standards").
Comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments (see "Note 19–Business Segments").
While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segment results have been recast to reflect this change.
Certain amounts in the prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
The Company combined "Dividends payable" and "Income taxes payable" with "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Additionally, the Company reclassified bad debt expense from "Selling, general and administrative expenses" to "Bad debt expense and recoveries" on the condensed consolidated statement of income.
The Company also separately disclosed "Bad debt expense" on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
In the opinion of management, the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
The results reported in these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the entire year.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2019.
Accounting Standards Updates Adopted
ASU 2016-02, ASU 2018-10, ASU 2018-11, ASU 2018-20 and ASU 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842)
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-02 ("ASC 842"), which supersedes the lease guidance under Leases (Topic 840) and makes several changes, such as requiring an entity to recognize a right-of-use ("ROU") asset and corresponding lease obligation on the balance sheet, classified as financing or operating, as appropriate.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and should be adopted under the modified retrospective approach.
The Company has elected to adopt certain practical expedients provided under ASC 842, including the options to not apply lease recognition for short-term leases, reassess whether expired or existing contracts contain leases, reassess lease classification for expired or existing leases, reassess initial direct costs, and combine lease and non-lease components in revenue arrangements when (i) the timing and pattern of revenue recognition for the components are the same and (ii) the lease component if accounted for separately, would be classified as an operating lease.
The Company did not elect the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term for existing leases and in assessing impairment for the ROU assets.
The Company also applies a single discount rate to a portfolio of leased assets with similar durations.
Effective December 29, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of ASC 842 using the modified retrospective approach.
Comparative information for the prior fiscal year has not been retrospectively adjusted.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded $433 million and $486 million of ROU assets and lease liabilities, respectively, primarily due to its operating leases, to the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
The standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated statements of income and consolidated statements of cash flows.
The Company also recorded a $48 million increase in retained earnings due to the cumulative effect of recognizing the gain, net of taxes, related to the sale of the San Diego properties (see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Accounting Standards Updates Issued But Not Yet Adopted
ASU 2016-13, ASU 2018-19 and ASU 2019-05, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326)
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, which eliminates the requirement that a credit loss on a financial instrument be "probable" prior to recognition.
Instead, a valuation allowance will be recorded to reflect an entity's current estimate of all expected credit losses, based on both historical and forecasted information related to an instrument.
The update is effective for public companies for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and should be adopted using a modified retrospective approach, which applies a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective.
A prospective approach is required for debt securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment had been recognized before the effective date and loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality.
Early adoption is permitted.
In November 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-19 "Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses" to add clarity to certain areas within ASU 2016-13.
In May 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-05 "Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Target Transition Relief" which provided transition relief for entities adopting ASU 2016-13 by allowing the election of the fair value option on certain financial instruments.
The effective date and the transition methodology for the amendments in these updates are the same as in ASU 2016-13.
The Company is evaluating the impacts that this standard update will have on certain financial assets, including trade receivables, note receivables and receivables on sales-type leases.
The Company is in the process of determining the potential impacts to processes, including allowance estimation models and internal controls in order to meet the standard update's accounting and reporting requirements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 3–Significant Accounting Policies
Leases
Lessee
The Company has facilities and equipment lease arrangements.
An arrangement is determined to be a lease at inception if it conveys the right to control the use of identified property and equipment for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
ROU assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset over the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
ROU assets and lease liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet at lease commencement date based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term.
As the Company generally does not know the implicit rate for its leases, the discount rate used is the Company’s incremental borrowing rate which is determined based on the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to borrow an amount equal to the lease payments on a collateralized basis over a similar term.
An ROU asset is initially measured by the present value of the remaining lease payments, plus initial direct costs and prepaid lease payments, less any lease incentives received before commencement.
The remaining lease cost is allocated over the remaining lease term on a straight-line basis unless another systematic or rational basis is more representative of the pattern in which the underlying asset is expected to be used.
ROU assets are evaluated for impairment in a manner consistent with the treatment of other long-lived assets.
Certain of the Company’s facility leases contain options to renew or extend the terms of the lease which are included in the determination of the ROU assets and lease liabilities when it is reasonably certain that the Company will exercise the option.
The Company's leases may also include variable lease payments such as an escalation clause based on consumer price index rates, maintenance costs and utilities.
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the determination of ROU assets and lease liabilities using the index or rate at the lease commencement date, whereas variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are recorded as lease expense in the period incurred.
At September 27, 2019, the Company did not have any lease agreements with residual value guarantees.
As a result of the adoption of ASC 842, the Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and instead account for both components as a single lease.
The related lease payments on the Company’s short-term facilities and equipment leases are recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lessor
The Company is a lessor on certain equipment sales-type and operating lease arrangements with its customers.
To be considered lease revenue, the contract must contain a specified asset, the Company must not have a substantive substitution right, the customer must have the right to direct the use of the specified asset during the period of use and the customer must have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefit of the specified asset.
Certain arrangements may contain variable payments that depend on an index or rate and are measured using the index or rate on the commencement date.
Arrangements may also contain options to renew or extend the performance period.
Option periods are included in the lease term if the Company determines that it is reasonably certain the customer will exercise an option.
The Company has arrangements that contain both lease and non-lease components.
The Company will account for them as one unit of account if the timing and pattern of transfer is identical for both the lease and the non-lease components and the lease component would be classified as an operating lease if accounted for separately.
If both criteria are met and the predominant component is a lease, then the entire arrangement will be accounted for in accordance with ASC 842.
If the Company accounts for an arrangement both as a lease and non-lease component, then the allocation of consideration for each component will be based the relative standalone sales price.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Changes in Estimates on Contracts
Changes in estimates related to contracts accounted for using the cost-to-cost method of accounting are recognized in the period in which such changes are made for the inception-to-date effect of the changes, with the exception of contracts acquired through a business combination, where the adjustment is made for the period commencing from the date of acquisition.
The impact on diluted earnings per share ("EPS") attributable to Leidos common stockholders is calculated using the Company's statutory tax rate.
Revenue Recognized from Prior Obligations
Revenue recognized from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods was $17 million and $36 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively and $18 million and $84 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
The changes primarily relate to revisions of variable consideration, including award and incentive fees, and revisions to estimates at completion resulting from changes in contract scope, mitigation of contract risks or due to true-ups of contract estimates at the end of contract performance.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in several large institutional money market accounts, with original maturity of three months or less.
The Company includes outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents" and correspondingly increases "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
At September 27, 2019 and December 28, 2018, the Company included $33 million and $56 million, respectively, of outstanding payments within "Cash and cash equivalents."
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Lessee
The Company's lease costs are included in "Cost of revenues" and "Selling, general and administrative expenses" within the condensed consolidated statements of income.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, Virginia.
The Company will occupy the space for an initial term of 148 months and rent expense will be $11 million for the first lease year, with an annual rent expense increase of 2.5%.
The Company currently expects construction to be completed and to take occupancy of the building by April 1, 2020, at which point the Company's lease agreements for its current corporate headquarters will terminate.
Disclosures related to periods prior to adoption of ASC 842
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company had $40 million and $120 million of net rental expense, respectively.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Lessor
As of September 27, 2019, the Company had a total net investment in sales-type leases, which relates to lease payment receivables, of $56 million.
The current and non-current portions of net investment in sales-type leases are included within "Other current assets" and "Other assets", respectively, on the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
Remaining Performance Obligations
As of September 27, 2019, the Company had $10.8 billion of remaining performance obligations, which are expected to be recognized as revenue in the amounts of $2.7 billion, $5.0 billion and $3.1 billion for the remainder of fiscal 2019, fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2021 and thereafter, respectively.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Disaggregation of Revenues
The Company disaggregates revenues by customer-type, contract-type and geographic location for each of its reportable segments.
These categories represent how the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows are affected.
Prior year amounts have been recast for the contracts that were reassigned between the Defense Solutions and Civil reportable segments (see "Note 19–Business Segments").
The majority of the Company's revenues are generated from U.S. government contracts, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor to other contractors.
Revenues from the U.S. government can be adversely impacted by spending caps or changes in budgetary priorities of the U.S. government, as well as delays in program start dates or the award of a contract.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company's international business operations, primarily located in Australia and the U.K., are subject to additional and different risks than its U.S. business.
Failure to comply with U.S government laws and regulations applicable to international business, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or U.S. export control regulations, could have an adverse impact on the Company's business with the U.S. government.
In some countries, there is an increased chance for economic, legal or political changes that may adversely affect the performance of the Company's services, sales of products or repatriation of profits.
International transactions can also involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange variability, imposition of tariffs or additional taxes and restrictive trade policies, and delays or failure to collect amounts due to differing legal systems.
For the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, revenues exclude $58 million and $88 million, respectively, recognized under ASC 842.
See "Note 4–Leases" for additional information regarding revenues recognized under ASC 842.
Note 6–Contract Assets and Liabilities
Contract assets consist of unbilled receivables, which is the amount of revenue recognized that exceeds the amount billed to the customer, where right to payment is not just subject to the passage of time.
Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The decrease in unbilled receivables was primarily due to the timing of revenue recognized on certain contracts.
The increase in deferred revenue was primarily due to the timing of advance payments from customers offset by revenue recognized during the period.
Revenue recognized for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019 of $11 million and $200 million, respectively, was included as a contract liability at December 28, 2018.
Revenue recognized for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018 of $37 million and $164 million, respectively, was included as a contract liability at December 30, 2017 (date of adoption).
On August 15, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of IMX Medical Management Services, Inc. and its affiliated businesses ("IMX") for preliminary purchase consideration of $95 million, which primarily included $90 million of cash paid and an additional $4 million paid to extinguish IMX's existing term loans and credit facility balances.
The acquisition extends the Company's independent medical evaluation coverage area for commercial and federal customers.
The Company recorded $51 million of goodwill (which is deductible for tax purposes) and $42 million of intangible assets.
The intangible assets primarily consist of $41 million for customer relationships.
The amortization period for the customer relationships is 10 years.
At September 27, 2019, the Company had not finalized the determination of fair values allocated to assets and liabilities, including, but not limited to, intangible assets and accounts payable and accrued liabilities.
Health Staff Augmentation Business
On September 12, 2019, the Company's Health segment disposed of its health staff augmentation business that was primarily focused on implementation and optimization services to hospital customers.
The Company recorded an immaterial loss, which is primarily comprised of the $15 million sales price less the $12 million carrying value of net assets divested, preliminary net working capital adjustments and transaction related costs.
This disposition did not meet the criteria to be classified as a discontinued operation in the Company's financial statements.
Commercial Cybersecurity Business
On February 20, 2019, the Company's Civil segment disposed of its commercial cybersecurity business in order to focus on providing solutions, including cybersecurity, to the Company's core markets of governments and highly regulated industries.
In February 2019, the Company received initial proceeds of $171 million.
During the quarter ended June 28, 2019, working capital adjustments were finalized, resulting in a final sales price of $166 million.
The Company recorded a pre-tax gain on sale of $87 million, net of assets divested of $69 million and $10 million in transaction related costs.
The gain was recorded in "Other (expense) income, net" on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
This disposition did not meet the criteria to be classified as a discontinued operation in the Company's financial statements.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The goodwill balances at September 27, 2019, December 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017 included accumulated goodwill impairment losses of $369 million and $117 million within the Health and Civil segments, respectively.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment, which resulted in the identification of new operating segments and reporting units within Defense Solutions.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between Civil and Defense solutions reportable segments (see "Note 19–Business Segments").
Consequently, the carrying amount of goodwill was re-allocated among the reporting units for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment.
In conjunction with the changes mentioned above, the Company evaluated goodwill for impairment using a quantitative step one analysis, both before and after the changes were made, and determined that goodwill was not impaired.
There were no goodwill impairments during the nine months ended September 27, 2019 and September 28, 2018.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Amortization expense was $43 million and $129 million, for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively, and $50 million and $151 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
Program and contract intangible assets are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows.
Customer relationships are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Software and technology intangible assets are amortized either on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or over their respective estimated useful lives in proportion to the pattern of economic benefit based on expected future discounted cash flows, as deemed appropriate.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment
Depreciation expense was $16 million and $45 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively, and $14 million and $42 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
Sale and Leaseback Agreements
Gaithersburg, MD Property
On December 31, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to its land and building in Gaithersburg, MD.
The Company received proceeds of $31 million, net of selling costs for the property, which had a carrying value of $31 million.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2020.
During the quarter ended March 30, 2018, an impairment charge of $7 million associated with this property was recorded within Corporate.
San Diego, CA Properties
On December 28, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to two buildings and the adjacent land in San Diego, CA for consideration of $79 million, net of selling costs.
The carrying value of the land and buildings was $14 million.
The Company received cash proceeds of $14 million upon closing in December 2018, and received the remaining $65 million cash proceeds in January 2019.
The term of the lease is expected to end during fiscal 2036.
Prior to the adoption of ASC 842, the consideration of $79 million was recorded as a financing transaction.
Under ASC 842, the transaction qualified as a sale-leaseback and consequently the debt of $79 million and the carrying value of the property of $14 million, net of the related tax impact of $17 million, were reclassified into retained earnings as a cumulative effect adjustment.
The proceeds received in fiscal 2019 were recorded as investing activities on the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Note 12–Fair Value Measurements
The accounting guidance for fair value measurements requires that the Company maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs in determining fair value.
The accounting guidance provides for the irrevocable option to elect, on a contract-by-contract basis, to measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value at inception of the contract and record any subsequent changes in fair value in earnings.
The Company has not made fair value option elections on any of its financial assets and liabilities.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company's derivatives consisted of the fair value interest rate swaps on its $450 million, fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 and cash flow interest rate swaps on $1.5 billion of the Company's variable rate senior secured term loans (see "Note 13–Derivative Instruments").
The fair value of the fair value interest rate swaps and cash flow interest rate swaps is determined based on observed values for underlying interest rates on the LIBOR yield curve and the underlying interest rate, respectively (Level 2 inputs).
The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, other than derivatives, which include cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, are reasonable estimates of their related fair values.
The carrying value of the Company's note receivable of $25 million and $24 million as of September 27, 2019, and December 28, 2018, respectively, approximates fair value as the stated interest rate within the agreement is consistent with current market rates used in notes with similar terms in the market (Level 2 inputs).
As of September 27, 2019, and December 28, 2018, the fair value of debt was $3.1 billion and the carrying amount was $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively (see "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of long-term debt is determined based on current interest rates available for debt with terms and maturities similar to the Company’s existing debt arrangements (Level 2 inputs).
On August 15, 2019, the Company recorded non-financial instruments measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in connection with the acquisition of IMX (see "Note 7–Acquisitions").
The preliminary fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were determined using Level 3 inputs.
As of September 27, 2019, the Company did not have any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
The Company manages its risk to changes in interest rates through the use of derivative instruments.
The Company does not hold derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
For fixed rate borrowings, the Company uses variable interest rate swaps, effectively converting fixed rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings.
These swaps are designated as fair value hedges.
For variable rate borrowings, the Company uses fixed interest rate swaps, effectively converting a portion of the variable interest rate payments to fixed interest rate payments.
These swaps are designated as cash flow hedges.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The cash flows associated with the interest rate swaps are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Fair Value Hedge
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the fair value of the $450 million fixed rate 4.45% senior secured notes maturing in December 2020 (the "Notes").
The objective of these instruments is to hedge the Notes against changes in fair value due to the variability in the six-month LIBOR rate (the benchmark interest rate).
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive semi-annual interest payments at the coupon rate of 4.45% and will pay variable interest based on the six-month LIBOR rate.
The interest rate swaps were accounted for as a fair value hedge of the Notes and qualified for the shortcut method of hedge accounting, which allows for the assumption of no ineffectiveness.
The resulting changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are fully offset by the changes in the fair value of the underlying debt (the hedged item) (See "Note 14–Debt").
The fair value of the Notes is stated at an amount that reflects changes in the six-month LIBOR rate subsequent to the inception of the interest rate swaps through the reporting date.
Cash Flow Hedges
The Company has interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of a portion of its variable rate senior secured term loans (the "Variable Rate Loans").
The objective of these instruments is to reduce variability in the forecasted interest payments of the Company's Variable Rate Loans, which are based on the LIBOR rate.
Under the terms of the interest rate swap agreements, the Company will receive monthly variable interest payments based on the one-month LIBOR rate and will pay interest at a fixed rate.
In February 2018, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements to hedge the cash flows of an additional $250 million of its Variable Rate Loans.
The interest rate swap agreements on $1.1 billion of the Company's Variable Rate Loans had a maturity date of December 2021 and a fixed interest rate of 1.08%.
The interest rate swap agreements on $300 million and $250 million of the Company's Variable Rate Loans both had a maturity date of August 2022 and fixed interest rates of 1.66% and 2.59%, respectively.
In September 2018, the Company terminated its existing interest rate swaps.
The net derivative gain of $60 million related to the discontinued cash flow hedges remained within accumulated other comprehensive loss and is being reclassified into earnings over the remaining life of the original hedges as the hedged variable rate debt impacts earnings.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company expects to reclassify net gains of $2 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings during the next 12 months.
The interest rate on the Company's senior secured term loans is determined based on the LIBOR rate plus a margin.
The margin for the Term Loan A loans ranges from 1.25% to 2.00%, depending on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio, and is computed on a quarterly basis.
At September 27, 2019, the current margin on Term Loan A was 1.50% and the margin on Term Loan B was 1.75%.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The Company made principal payments on its long-term debt of $2 million and $50 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively, and $15 million and $59 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
This activity included principal payments on its senior secured term loans of $41 million during the nine months ended September 27, 2019 and $15 million and $46 million during the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
There were no principal payments on the Company's senior secured term loans for the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
In April 2018, the Company made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on its senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in the Company's credit agreements.
The Company has a revolving credit facility providing up to $750 million in secured borrowing capacity at interest rates determined based upon the LIBOR rate plus a margin that is subject to step-down provisions based on the Company's senior secured leverage ratio.
The maturity date of this credit facility is August 2023.
As of September 27, 2019, and December 28, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility.
Amortization of the debt discount and deferred debt issuance costs related to the senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility was $2 million and $7 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 27, 2019, respectively, and $2 million and $8 million for the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively.
The senior secured term loans and notes, unsecured notes and revolving credit facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed and contain certain customary restrictive covenants, including among other things, restrictions on the Company's ability to create liens and enter into sale and leaseback transactions under certain circumstances.
The Company was in compliance with all covenants as of September 27, 2019.
Note 15–Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
Reclassifications from unrecognized gain (loss) on derivative instruments are recorded in "Interest expense, net" in the Company's condensed consolidated statements of income.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Note 16–Earnings Per Share ("EPS")
Anti-dilutive stock-based awards are excluded from the weighted average number of shares outstanding used to compute diluted EPS.
On February 21, 2019, the Company entered into an Accelerated Share Repurchase ("ASR") agreement with a financial institution to repurchase shares of its outstanding common stock.
During the quarter ended March 29, 2019, the Company paid $200 million to the financial institution and received an initial delivery of 2.6 million shares.
In April 2019, the Company received the final delivery of 0.6 million shares related to the ASR agreement.
The total number of shares that the Company received under the ASR agreement was based on the volume-weighted-average-price of $63.52 per share for the period February 21, 2019 to April 29, 2019.
The purchases were recorded to "Additional paid-in capital" in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
All shares delivered were immediately retired.
On August 1, 2019, the Company entered into an ASR agreement with a financial institution to repurchase shares of its outstanding common stock.
During the quarter ended September 27, 2019, the Company paid $200 million to the financial institution and received 2.4 million shares related to the ASR agreement.
The total number of shares that the Company received under the ASR agreement was based on the volume-weighted-average-price of $84.25 per share for the period August 1, 2019 to September 25, 2019.
The purchases were recorded to "Additional paid-in capital" in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
All shares delivered were immediately retired.
During the quarter and nine months ended September 28, 2018, the Company made open market repurchases of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $62 million and $162 million, respectively.
All shares repurchased were immediately retired.
Note 17–Supplementary Cash Flow Information and Restricted Cash
See "Note 4–Leases" for additional supplementary cash flow information related to the Company's leases.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The restricted cash is recorded within "Other current assets" in the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The restricted cash is primarily comprised of advances from customers that are restricted as to use for certain expenditures related to that customer's contract.
For the quarter ended September 27, 2019, the effective tax rate was 24.3% compared to 13.5% for the quarter ended September 28, 2018.
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the recording of a valuation allowance related to foreign tax credits in the current quarter and a release of a valuation allowance related to the utilization of a capital loss carryforward in the prior year quarter.
For the nine months ended September 27, 2019, the effective tax rate was 23.5% compared to 14.3% for the nine months ended September 28, 2018.
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the recording of a valuation allowance related to foreign tax credits and an increase in unrecognized tax benefits in the current year.
Additionally, during the prior year, tax benefits were recognized related to the anticipated sale of the Company's commercial cybersecurity business and the release of a valuation allowance related to the utilization of a capital loss carryforward.
The Company's operations and reportable segments are organized around the markets served and the nature of the products and services provided to customers in those markets.
The Company defines its reportable segments based on the way the chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), currently its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, manages the operations of the Company for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance.
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, the Company changed the composition of its Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers it serves.
This resulted in the identification of new operating segments within Defense Solutions.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments.
While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segments results have been recast to reflect this change.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
The financial performance measures used to evaluate segment performance are revenues and operating income.
As a result, "Interest expense, net," "Other (expense) income, net" and "Income tax expense" as reported in the condensed consolidated financial statements are not allocated to the Company's segments.
Under U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, indirect costs including depreciation expense are collected in numerous indirect cost pools, which are then collectively allocated to the Company’s reportable segments based on a representative causal or beneficial relationship of the costs in the pool to the costs in the base.
As such, the company does not separately disclose depreciation expense on the condensed consolidated statements of income.
Asset information by segment is not a key measure of performance used by the CODM.
Legal Proceedings
MSA Joint Venture
On November 10, 2015, MSA received a final decision by the Department of Energy ("DoE") contracting officer for the Mission Support Contract concluding that certain payments to MSA by the DoE for the performance of IT services by Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. ("LMSI") under a subcontract to MSA constituted alleged affiliate fees in violation of Federal Acquisition Regulations ("FAR").
Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology LLC (now known as Leidos Integrated Technology LLC) is a member entity of MSA.
Subsequent to the contracting officer's final decision, MSA, LMSI, and Lockheed Martin Corporation received notice from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Washington that the U.S. government had initiated a False Claims Act investigation into the facts surrounding this dispute, and each of MSA, LMSI and Lockheed Martin Corporation have produced information in response to Civil Investigative Demands from the U.S. Attorney's Office.
On February 8, 2019, the U.S. Attorney's office filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington against MSA, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Lockheed Martin Services, Inc. and a Lockheed Martin employee.
The complaint alleges violations of the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Act and breach of contract with DoE, among other things.
The U.S. Attorney's office had previously advised that a parallel criminal investigation was open, although no subjects or targets of the investigation had been identified.
The U.S. Attorney's office has informed MSA that it has closed the criminal investigation.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Securities Litigation
Greek Government Contract
In 2003, the Company entered into an FFP contract with the Hellenic Republic of Greece to provide a Command, Control, Communications, Coordination and Integration System.
The Greek government disputed the contract balance owed to the Company and withheld payment.
In 2013, the Company received an arbitral award by the International Chamber of Commerce.
In 2017, the U.S. District Court granted an order to enforce the arbitration award and entered judgment in the Company's favor.
The Company subsequently commenced enforcement proceedings against the Greek government.
On September 10, 2019, the Company received $59 million on behalf of Leidos and its subcontractors, substantially, though not entirely, resolving the Company’s claim.
 Arbitration Proceeding
The Company is a party to an arbitration proceeding involving a claim by Lockheed Martin for indemnification for $56 million in taxes attributable to deferred revenue recognized as a result of the Transactions.
Based on the arguments advanced to date, the Company believes that the claim appears to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself in arbitration.
The Company does not believe that a material loss is probable, and has therefore not recorded any liability for this matter.
Other
The Company is also involved in various claims and lawsuits arising in the normal conduct of its business, none of which, in the opinion of the Company's management, based upon current information, will likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Other Contingencies
VirnetX, Inc.
On September 29, 2017, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment in the VirnetX v. Apple case referred to as the Apple I case.
The court found that Apple willfully infringed the VirnetX patents at issue in the Apple I case and awarded enhanced damages, bringing the total award against Apple to over $343 million in pre-interest damages.
The court subsequently awarded an additional sum of over $96 million for costs, attorneys' fees, and interest, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple I case to over $439 million.
Apple appealed the judgment in the Apple I case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and on January 15, 2019, the court affirmed the $439 million judgment.
On August 1, 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit denied Apple’s petition for panel and en banc rehearing, but Apple subsequently filed motions to stay and vacate the judgment, and for leave to file a second petition for rehearing.
These motions were denied by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on October 1, 2019.
It is expected that Apple will file a petition for a writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court of the United States in connection with the Apple I case.
On April 10, 2018, a jury trial concluded in an additional patent infringement case brought by VirnetX against Apple, referred to as the Apple II case, in which the jury returned a verdict against Apple for infringement and awarded VirnetX damages in the amount of over $502 million.
On April 11, 2018, in a second phase of the Apple II trial, the jury found Apple's infringement to be willful.
On August 30, 2018, the federal trial court in the Eastern District of Texas entered a final judgment and rulings on post-trial motions in the Apple II case.
The court affirmed the jury’s verdict of over $502 million and granted VirnetX’s motions for supplemental damages, a sunset royalty and royalty rate of $1.20 per infringing device, along with pre-judgment and post-judgment interest and costs.
The court denied VirnetX’s motions for enhanced damages, attorneys’ fees, and an injunction.
The court also denied Apple’s motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial.
An additional sum of over $93 million for costs and pre-judgment interest was subsequently agreed upon pursuant to a court order, bringing the total award to VirnetX in the Apple II case to over $595 million.
Apple has filed an appeal of the judgment in the Apple II case with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The Company does not have any assets or liabilities recorded in connection with this matter as of September 27, 2019.
Government Investigations and Reviews
The Company is routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect to its role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside of the United States.
Adverse findings could have a material effect on the Company's business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows due to its reliance on government contracts.
As of September 27, 2019, indirect cost audits by the Defense Contract Audit Agency remain open for fiscal 2013 and subsequent fiscal years.
Although the Company has recorded contract revenues based upon an estimate of costs that the Company believes will be approved upon final audit or review, the Company cannot predict the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments, and if future adjustments exceed the Company's estimates, its profitability may be adversely affected.
As of September 27, 2019, the Company believes it has adequately reserved for potential adjustments from audits or reviews of contract costs.
In February 2019, the Company executed an external restructuring advance agreement with the DoD in accordance with provisions of the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, which allows the Company to recover certain specified external restructuring costs.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
Reston, VA Lease Agreement
On January 24, 2018, the Company entered into a lease agreement with its current lessor for office space in a building to be constructed to function as the Company's new corporate headquarters in Reston, VA (see "Note 4–Leases").
Gaithersburg, MD Lease Agreement
On December 31, 2018, the Company closed the sale and leaseback agreement relating to its land and building in Gaithersburg, MD.
(see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
San Diego, CA Lease Agreement
On December 28, 2018, the Company closed the sales and leaseback agreement relating to two buildings and the adjacent land in San Diego, CA (see "Note 11–Property, Plant and Equipment").
On September 30, 2019, the Company paid its $48 million dividend for the quarter ended September 27, 2019.
The dividend liability at September 27, 2019 was included within "Accounts payable and accrued liabilities" in the consolidated balance sheets.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
Item 1.
Legal Proceedings.
We have furnished information relating to legal proceedings, and any investigations and reviews that we are involved with in "Note 20–Contingencies" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
There were no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2018.
