Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following discussion and analysis of Leidos Holdings, Inc.'s ("Leidos") financial condition, results of operations, and quantitative and qualitative discussion about business environment and trends should be read in conjunction with Leidos' condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
The following discussion contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations with respect to, among other things, trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations, backlog, our industry and government budgets and spending.
Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
Some of these factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated periodically through our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Due to such uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
We do not undertake any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments.
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Overview
Effective the beginning of fiscal 2019, we changed the composition of our Defense Solutions reportable segment to better align the operations within the reportable segment to the customers we serve.
This resulted in the identification of new operating segments within Defense Solutions.
In addition, certain contracts were reassigned between the Civil and Defense Solutions reportable segments.
While this activity did not have a material impact on the Company's reportable segments, prior year segments results have been recast to reflect this change.
Business Environment and Trends
U.S. Government Markets
During the three months ended March 29, 2019, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor, and Health and Human Services for the full government fiscal year ("GFY") 2019.
Earlier in 2018, funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Energy as well as funding for Congress were also enacted.
All were funded at increased levels from the previous year.
The remaining seven appropriations bills were operating under a continuing resolution ("CR") until it expired on December 21, 2018.
From the expiration of that CR until the passage of a new CR on January 25, 2019 there was a partial U.S. government shutdown, which reduced or delayed work on existing contracts and caused delays in other government contracting actions and payments.
Prior to the expiration of the January CR, Congress passed appropriations for the seven remaining appropriations bills, thereby completing funding for GFY 2019.
In March 2019, the President submitted the GFY 2020 budget proposal to Congress.
The budget includes $750 billion for defense and $563 billion for non-defense spending.
The defense budget proposal includes $576 billion for national defense and $165 billion for the Overseas Contingency Operations fund.
Congress has begun the process of considering this proposal.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
International Markets
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 8% of total revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019.
Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in Australia and the U.K. Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.
Recent changes in international trade policies, including higher tariffs on imported goods and materials, may increase our procurement costs of certain IT hardware used both on our contracts and for internal use.
However, we expect to recover certain portions of these higher tariffs through our cost-plus contracts.
While we are still evaluating the impact of higher tariffs, currently, we do not expect tariffs to have a significant impact to our business.
Results of Operations
NM - Not meaningful
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended March 29, 2019, was 6.1%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 5.5%.
The foreign currency impact was mainly attributable to adverse exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
Segment and Corporate Results
The increase in revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards and a net increase in program volumes, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, the adverse impact of foreign exchange rates movement between the U.S. dollar and the Australian dollar and higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter.
 The decrease in operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily due to higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter, partially offset by new awards.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts, higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter and the adverse impact of foreign exchange rates movement between the U.S. dollar and the British pound.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily due to new awards and lower amortization of intangibles, partially offset by higher net profit write-ups in the prior year quarter and the timing of material deliveries on certain contracts.
The increase in revenues and operating income for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to a net increase in program volumes and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to the three months ended March 30, 2018, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs and an asset impairment charge in the prior year quarter.
Non-Operating Income (Expense), net
Non-operating income, net for the three months ended March 29, 2019 was $54 million as compared to non-operating expense, net of $34 million for the three months ended March 30, 2018.
The $88 million increase was primarily due to the gain recognized on the sale of our commercial cybersecurity business.
Provision for Income Taxes
For the three months ended March 29, 2019, our effective tax rate was 23.2% compared to 18.4% for the three months ended March 30, 2018.
The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a reduced benefit from employee stock-based awards and an increase in certain unrecognized tax benefits.
Bookings and Backlog
We recorded net bookings worth an estimated $3.3 billion during the three months ended March 29, 2019, as compared to $2.5 billion for the three months ended March 30, 2018.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
Total backlog at March 29, 2019 included a favorable impact of $61 million when compared to total backlog at December 28, 2018, due to exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
Backlog estimates are subject to change and may be affected by factors including modifications of contracts and foreign currency movements.
Our total backlog consists of remaining performance obligations (see "Note 5–Revenues") and unexercised option periods.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Overview
As of March 29, 2019, we had $536 million in cash and cash equivalents.
In addition, we have a secured revolving credit facility which can provide up to $750 million in additional borrowing, if required.
During the three months ended March 29, 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.
At March 29, 2019, and December 28, 2018, we had outstanding debt of $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively.
During the three months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, we made $31 million and $17 million of principal payments, respectively, on our long-term debt.
This activity included $27 million and $15 million of required quarterly principal payments on our senior secured term loans during the three months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively.
In April 2018, we made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on our senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in our credit agreements.
The notes outstanding as of March 29, 2019, contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants.
We were in compliance with all covenants as of March 29, 2019.
We paid dividends of $54 million and $52 million during the three months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, respectively.
For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
Summary of Cash Flows
Net cash used in financing activities increased $206 million for the three months ended March 29, 2019, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to $200 million of stock repurchases under the Accelerated Share Repurchase program and timing of debt payments.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain aspects of our business.
We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds as described in "Note 19–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition.
Commitments and Contingencies
We are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits, other uncertainties and future obligations related to our business.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 18–Contingencies" and "Note 19–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Critical Accounting Policies
There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates or judgments, other than our accounting policy on leases, during the period covered by this report from those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2018.
We revised our accounting policy on leases in conjunction with our adoption of Accounting Standards Update 2016-02 (see "Note 3–Significant Accounting Policies").
Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Standards
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 2–Accounting Standards" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On February 16, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 20 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
The shares may be repurchased from time to time in one or more open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions.
The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements, compliance with the terms of our outstanding indebtedness and other considerations.
There is no assurance as to the number of shares that will be repurchased, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our Board of Directors' discretion.
