Item 4.
Controls and Procedures.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer (our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer) and principal financial officer (our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer), has evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of March 29, 2019.
Based upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
These disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Effective December 29, 2018, we implemented changes to certain controls and related procedures with respect to our adoption of ASC 842.
There have been no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred in the quarterly period covered by this report that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
Legal Proceedings.
We have furnished information relating to legal proceedings, and any investigations and reviews that we are involved with in "Note 18–Contingencies" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 1A.
Risk Factors.
There were no material changes from the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2018.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
On February 16, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 20 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
The shares may be repurchased from time to time in one or more open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions.
The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements, compliance with the terms of our outstanding indebtedness and other considerations.
There is no assurance as to the number of shares that will be repurchased, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our Board of Directors' discretion.
Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities.
None.
Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.
Not applicable.
Item 5.
Other Information.
None.
Item 6.
Exhibits.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Leidos Holdings, Inc.


James C. Reagan

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and

as a duly authorized officer
