Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following discussion and analysis of Leidos Holdings, Inc.'s ("Leidos") financial condition, results of operations and quantitative and qualitative discussion about business environment and trends should be read in conjunction with Leidos' condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes.
The following discussion contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding our intent, belief, or current expectations with respect to, among other things, trends affecting our financial condition or results of operations, backlog, our industry and government budgets and spending.
Such statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
Some of these factors include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated periodically through our subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Due to such uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
We do not undertake any obligation to update these factors or to publicly announce the results of any changes to our forward-looking statements due to future events or developments.
Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to the "Company," "we," "us" and "our" refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Overview
Business Environment and Trends
U.S. Government Markets
During the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, we generated approximately 85% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government.
Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially on national security, homeland security and intelligence, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government.
On March 23, 2018, Congress passed and the President signed into law the Omnibus Appropriations Bill thereby funding the federal government through the end of the 2018 government fiscal year ("GFY").
The appropriations legislation passed earlier in the year suspended budget caps and included a two-year budget agreement that provided $300 billion in sequestration relief for defense and non-defense spending.
Defense programs saw additional funding of $80 billion and $85 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, and non-defense spending increased by $63 billion and $68 billion in GFY 2018 and GFY 2019, respectively, over the caps established in the Budget Control Act of 2011.
The legislation also suspends the debt ceiling until March 2019.
In September 2018, Congress passed and the President signed a second consolidated appropriations bill funding the Departments of Defense, Labor and Health and Human Services for the full GFY 2019.
Earlier in the year, funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Energy as well as funding for Congress were also enacted.
All were funded at increased levels from the previous year.
There are now seven appropriations bills operating under a continuing resolution, which will expire on December 7, 2018.
Congress must act before that date in order for those seven departments to continue operating, either by passing appropriations for the remainder of GFY 2019 or by passing another continuing resolution.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
International Markets
Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 9% of total revenues for both the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018.
Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies, primarily located in the U.K. and Australia.
Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory and geopolitical risks.
Recent changes in international trade policies, including higher tariffs on imported goods and materials, may increase our procurement costs of certain IT hardware used both on our contracts and for internal use.
However, we expect to recover certain portions of these higher tariffs through our cost-plus contracts.
While we are still evaluating the impact of higher tariffs, currently, we do not expect tariffs to have a significant impact to our business.
Lockheed Martin Transaction
We incurred integration costs of $4 million and $26 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $21 million and $55 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
Key Performance Measures
The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted earnings per share.
Bookings and backlog are also useful measures for management and investors to evaluate our performance and potential future revenues.
Results of Operations
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
The increase in revenues in constant currency(1) for the three months ended September 28, 2018, was 3.2%, as compared to an actual increase in revenues of 2.9%.
The adverse foreign currency impact was primarily attributable to our Australia business in the Defense Solutions segment.
The decrease in revenues in constant currency for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, was 1.6%, as compared to an actual decrease in revenues of 1.4%.
The foreign currency benefit was mainly attributable to our U.K. business in the Civil segment.
Segment and Corporate Results
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards and timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts, a net decrease in program volumes and timing of revenue recognition on certain contracts, partially offset by new awards.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization.
The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, net profit write-downs in the prior year and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The increase in revenues for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to new awards, a net increase in program volumes and higher net profit write-ups in the current year quarter, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in revenues for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts and a net decrease in program volumes, partially offset by new awards, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates due to the movement of the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the British pound and higher net profit write-ups in the current year.
The increase in operating income for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, higher net profit write-ups in the quarter and new awards, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
The increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to lower amortization, an increase in new awards, higher net profit write-ups and a decrease in bad debt expense, partially offset by a net decrease in program volumes.
The decrease in revenues for the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to the completion of certain contracts and a lower level of commercial health revenues, partially offset by a net increase in program volumes.
The decrease in operating income for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts.
The decrease in operating income for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily due to the completion of certain contracts, partially offset by a net increase in program volumes.
The decrease in operating loss for the three months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the three months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $20 million, partially offset by higher general and administrative expenses.
The decrease in operating loss for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, as compared to the nine months ended September 29, 2017, was primarily attributable to lower integration and restructuring costs of $49 million, partially offset by an asset impairment charge of $7 million and higher general and administrative expenses.
Non-Operating Expense, net
Non-operating expense, net of $33 million and $101 million for the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, was consistent with the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, of $35 million and $99 million, respectively.
Provision for Income Taxes
For the three months ended September 28, 2018, our effective tax rate was 13.5% compared to 31.9% for the three months ended September 29, 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act's ("Tax Act") reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate and a release of the valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforward utilization.
For the nine months ended September 28, 2018, our effective tax rate was 14.3% compared to 30.1% for the nine months ended September 29, 2017.
The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the Tax Act's reduction of the U.S. federal statutory rate, certain tax benefits related to the anticipated sale of our commercial cybersecurity business and a release of the valuation allowance related to capital loss carryforward utilization, partially offset by a decrease in tax benefits related to employee stock awards.
Bookings and Backlog
We received net bookings worth an estimated $4.6 billion and $10.5 billion during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, compared to $3.1 billion and $7.4 billion for the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
Total backlog at September 28, 2018 included an adverse impact of $94 million when compared to total backlog at December 29, 2017, due to exchange rate movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S. dollar.
Backlog estimates are subject to change and may be affected by factors including modifications of contracts and foreign currency movements.
Our total backlog consists of remaining performance obligations (see "Note 4–Revenues") and unexercised option periods.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Overview
As of September 28, 2018, we had $515 million in cash and cash equivalents.
In addition, we have a secured revolving credit facility which can provide up to $750 million in additional borrowing, if required.
During the nine months ended September 28, 2018, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and we were in compliance with related financial covenants.
At September 28, 2018, and December 29, 2017, we had outstanding debt of $3.0 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively.
We made required quarterly principal payments on our senior secured term loans of $15 million and $46 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $20 million and $61 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
In April 2018, we made a required debt prepayment of $10 million on our senior secured term loans.
The prepayment was a result of the annual excess cash flow calculation clause in our credit agreements.
In addition to the required payments on our term loans, we prepaid $105 million and $130 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
The notes outstanding as of September 28, 2018, contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants.
We were in compliance with all covenants as of September 28, 2018.
We paid dividends of $48 million and $151 million during the three and nine months ended September 28, 2018, respectively, and $48 million and $150 million during the three and nine months ended September 29, 2017, respectively.
For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
Summary of Cash Flows
Net cash provided by operating activities increased $104 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to $60 million of proceeds received from the termination of interest rate swaps and lower payments for taxes and integration and restructuring costs.
Net cash provided by investing activities increased $34 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to $40 million of proceeds from settlement of a promissory note, partially offset by higher purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Net cash used in financing activities decreased $40 million for the three months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year quarter, primarily due to $110 million of lower debt payments, partially offset by $62 million of stock repurchases under the share repurchase program and a payment for a non-controlling equity interest acquired.
Net cash used in financing activities increased $53 million for the nine months ended September 28, 2018, when compared to the prior year, primarily due to $162 million of stock repurchases under the share repurchase program, $23 million of cash paid related to a tax indemnification liability and payments for a non-controlling equity interest acquired.
This was partially offset by $135 million of lower debt payments.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain aspects of our business.
We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and payment bonds as described in "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition.
Commitments and Contingencies
We are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits, other uncertainties and future obligations related to our business.
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 20–Contingencies" and "Note 21–Commitments" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Critical Accounting Policies
There were no material changes to our critical accounting policies, estimates or judgments, other than our revenue recognition policy, that occurred in the period covered by this report from those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2017.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
Revenue Recognition
Our revenues from contracts with customers are from offerings including cybersecurity; data analytics; enterprise IT modernization; operations and logistics; sensors, collection and phenomenology; software development; and systems engineering, primarily with the U.S. government and its agencies.
We also serve various state and local governments, foreign governments and U.S. commercial customers.
Most of our contracts are comprised of multiple promises including the design and build of software-based systems, integration of hardware and software solutions, running and maintaining of IT infrastructure and procurement services.
In all cases, we assess if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation.
We generally separate multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract.
If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or require significant integration or customization within a group, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation.
Our contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract.
We account for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices.
Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services.
The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies.
Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately.
Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer.
We exclude any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price.
Certain of our cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price.
These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion.
We estimate variable consideration at the most probable amount that we expect to be entitled to, based on the assessment of the contractual variable fee criteria, complexity of work and related risks, extent of customer discretion, amount of variable consideration received historically and the potential of significant reversal of revenue.
We allocate the transaction price of a contract to our performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices.
The standalone selling price of our performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR.
For certain product sales, we use prices from other standalone sales.
Substantially all of our contracts do not contain a significant financing component, which would require an adjustment to the transaction price of the contract.
We recognize revenue on our service based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as we perform the promised services.
For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process.
Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services that do not have an alternate use to us.
Anticipated losses on service based contracts are recognized as incurred.
In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, we recognize revenue at a point in time when the customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession and legal title.
LEIDOS HOLDINGS, INC.
For certain performance obligations, we are not primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the goods or service to the customer, do not have inventory risk and do not have discretion in establishing the price for the goods or service.
In such cases, we recognize revenue on a net basis.
Contract costs generally include direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, and indirect costs identifiable with or allocable to a specific contract.
Costs are expensed as incurred except for costs incurred during the transition phase of a new contract, which are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected life of that contract.
We do not incur significant incremental costs to acquire contracts.
Contract costs incurred for U.S. government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.
Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Standards
For a discussion of these items, see "Note 2–Accounting Standards" of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements contained within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
Item 2.
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds.
In February 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program of up to 20 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
The shares may be repurchased from time to time in one or more open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions, including accelerated share repurchase transactions.
The actual timing, number and value of shares repurchased under the program will depend on a number of factors, including the market price of our common stock, general market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements, compliance with the terms of our outstanding indebtedness and other considerations.
There is no assurance as to the number of shares that will be repurchased, and the repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at our Board of Directors' discretion.
This share repurchase authorization replaces the previous share repurchase authorization announced in December 2013.
