fls.txt



item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
The Company’s operating cycle may be greater than one year and is measured by the average time intervening between the inception and the completion of contracts.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1).
Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.
As a result of the adoption of the new standard, on February 2, 2019, the Company recognized approximately $169 million of right of use operating assets and $187 million of operating lease liabilities, of which $140 million was noncurrent.


item2.txt
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 50 years.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
Without additional action in the form of another bi-partisan budget agreement to lift the BCA caps, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
In addition, if there were a Continuing Resolution of longer than a few months to begin GFY 2020, the effect of the BCA caps, absent a change in the law, would be to reduce spending levels through sequestration from the levels set for GFY 2019 to much lower levels set in the BCA for GFY 2020.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns, and issues related to mandatory increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (the debt ceiling was reached in March 2019, and the Treasury is now operating under "extraordinary measures" which will be exhausted in approximately October 2019).
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules, and other multi-award contracts), which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts.
Our solutions are inspired through innovation based on adoption of best practices and technology integration of the best capabilities available.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


