fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
The accompanying financial information has been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission for interim reporting purposes.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
During fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the "Restructuring") intended to improve operational efficiency, reduce costs, and better position the Company to drive future growth.
The restructuring activities consisted of involuntary and voluntary terminations and the consolidation of existing leased facilities.
Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements and some cost guidance included in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).


item2.txt
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 45 years.
As one of the largest pure-play technical service providers to the U.S. government, we serve markets of significant scale and opportunity.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
We serve our customers through approximately 1,300 active contracts and task orders and employ more than 15,000 individuals who are led by an experienced executive team of proven industry leaders.
Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
In connection with the Merger, the Company has obtained a commitment letter from Citigroup Global Markets Inc. for a new seven-year senior secured $1.05 billion term loan facility under our existing credit agreement.
But beyond that two-year window, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in August 2011.
Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns and issues related to required increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (under current law, the debt ceiling will be reached in March 2019).


item3.txt



item4.txt
During the assessment process at February 2, 2018, we identified deficiencies in the operating effectiveness of controls over the training and awareness of contractual requirements related to multi-customer funding and the design of program control and time sheet review controls over contracts with multi-customer funding sources.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.
Additional information regarding such investigations and reviews is included in our fiscal 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we have also updated this information in Note 9 of the notes to the condensed and consolidated financial statements contained within this report, under the heading “Government Investigations, Audits and Reviews.” Item 1A.


