fls.txt



item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
Contract assets and liabilities are recorded net on a contract-by-contract basis and generally are classified as current, based on our contract operating cycle.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The Company’s fixed interest rate swaps are considered over-the-counter derivatives, and fair value is calculated using a standard pricing model for interest rate swaps with contractual terms for maturities, amortization and interest rates.
Level 2, or market observable inputs (such as yield and credit curves), are used within the standard pricing models in order to determine fair value.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements and some cost guidance included in the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).
Under this method, the Company recognized the cumulative effect of adoption as an adjustment to its opening balance of retained earnings on February 3, 2018.
Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted, but the Company will maintain dual reporting for the year of initial application, disclosing the effect of adoption.
The Company no longer defers the recognition of revenues and costs associated with significant upfront material acquisitions on programs previously accounted for using the efforts-expended method of percentage of completion.
The recognition, measurement and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as either a finance lease or operating lease.
The criteria for distinction between a finance lease and an operating lease are substantially similar to existing lease guidance for capital leases and operating leases.


item2.txt
We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life-cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
We developed our brand by addressing our customers’ mission critical needs and solving their most complex problems for over 45 years.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
Substantially all of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located in the United States.
A budget agreement passed in February would extend and increase those spending levels for GFY 2019.
But beyond that two-year window, there remains uncertainty on whether, and by how much, discretionary spending will be increased above the budget caps put in place in August 2011.
Without additional action, federal expenditures would decline sharply in GFY 2020.
Some changes that could have an adverse impact on our business include the implementation of future spending reductions (including sequestration), government shutdowns and issues related to required increases to the nation’s debt ceiling (under current law, the debt ceiling will be reached in March 2019).
The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process (including indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ), U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) schedules and other multi-award contracts) which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure.
Despite the budget and competitive pressures impacting the industry, we believe we are well positioned to protect and expand existing customer relationships and benefit from opportunities that we have not previously pursued.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Our management is implementing its plan to remediate the material weakness described above.


part2.txt
Item 1.


