fls.txt



item1.txt
Science Applications International Corporation (collectively, with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a leading provider of technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) services primarily to the U.S. government.
The Company provides engineering and integration services for large, complex projects and offers a broad range of services with a targeted emphasis on higher-end, differentiated technology services.
The Company is organized as a matrix comprised of three customer facing operating segments supported by a solutions and technology group.
The Company's operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment for financial reporting purposes.
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
All intercompany transactions and account balances within the Company have been eliminated.
The financial statements are unaudited, but in the opinion of management include all adjustments, which consist of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation thereof.
Derivative instruments are recorded on the condensed and consolidated balance sheets at fair value.
The fair value is an estimate of the amount that the Company would pay or receive as of a measurement date if the agreements were transferred to a third party or canceled.
See Note 8 for further discussion on the Company’s derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges.
Investments in marketable securities consist of equity securities which are recorded at fair value using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets (Level 1).
Some changes to lessor accounting have been made to conform and align that guidance with the lessee guidance and other areas within GAAP, such as Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2016-02 became effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The Company elected certain practical expedients provided under the standard, including the package of practical expedients, which allows entities not to reassess whether existing contracts are or contain leases.


item2.txt
We use the terms "SAIC," the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to Science Applications International Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We are a leading technology integrator providing full life cycle services and solutions in the technical, engineering and enterprise information technology (IT) markets.
Our primary customers are the departments and agencies of the U.S. government.
The cap increases also were paired with an extension of the federal debt limit until July 31, 2021, postponing the threat of a federal government default.
While the cap increases prevent sequestration under the BCA, Congress has not yet passed any GFY 2020 appropriations measures.
This makes it likely that one or more continuing resolutions (CRs) will be necessary to fund the government past September 30, and there remains a possibility that political and policy disputes could result in a full or partial government shutdown later this year.
In addition to the ongoing threat of shutdowns, future Congresses could choose to reduce overall spending levels or fail to increase the federal debt limit.
We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process.
We believe our long-term, trusted customer relationships and deep technical expertise provide us with the sophistication to handle highly complex, mission-critical contracts.
SAIC’s value proposition is found in the proven ability to serve as a trusted adviser to our customers.
In doing so, we leverage our expertise and scale to help them execute their mission.
Our solutions are inspired through innovation based on adoption of best practices and technology integration of the best capabilities available.
Our past performance was achieved by employees dedicated to supporting our customers’ most challenging missions.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Item 4.


part2.txt
Item 1.
In addition to the described legal proceedings, we are routinely subject to investigations and reviews relating to compliance with various laws and regulations.


