fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2019.
Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASC 842 and all the related amendments using the modified retrospective method, using the permitted practical expedients, to those contracts still outstanding as of January 1, 2019.
The standard more closely aligns the accounting for employee and nonemployee share-based payments.
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”).
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified.
Remaining performance obligations represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.


item2.txt
The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations.
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant amount of order cancellations.
Revenue.
Consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2019, increased by 6.5 percent year over year, from $452.7 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $482.0 million in the second quarter of 2019.
Increases in revenues for the three month period was primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit which is partially attributed to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc. ("Aeryon") and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. ("Endeavor") during the first quarter of 2019 coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.


