fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2019.
Effective January 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASC 842 and all the related amendments using the modified retrospective method, using the permitted practical expedients, to those contracts still outstanding as of January 1, 2019.
2018-07, "Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting" ("ASU 2018-07").
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”).
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The standard did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified.
Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contract period, as is the case for extended warranty contracts, or recognized as services are provided.


item2.txt
Revenue.
Increases in revenues for the three month period was primarily driven by increases in our Government and Defense business unit which is partially attributed to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc. ("Aeryon") and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. ("Endeavor") during the first quarter of 2019 coupled with volume increases of unmanned solutions and surveillance systems.
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
International sales accounted for 42.7 percent and 44.7 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.
Cost of goods sold.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Any significant shortfall of sales may result in us carrying higher levels of inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials thereby increasing our risk of inventory obsolescence and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.


