fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
2014-09, "Revenue - Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09").
The Company expects the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to net income on an ongoing basis.
For additional disclosures required by the new revenue standard see Note 2, "Revenue."
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
However, for certain contracts that include highly customized components, if performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and termination for convenience clauses provide an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, revenue is recognized over time as the performance obligation is satisfied.
"Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer are accounted for as a fulfillment cost and are included in cost of goods sold.


item2.txt
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
Excluding the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security businesses, we currently expect total annual revenue for 2018 to be higher than 2017 revenue and reported revenue including the divested businesses to be about flat or slightly down when compared to prior year.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.
Cost of goods sold for the three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were $220.2 million and $441.9 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 of $227.4 million and $442.9 million, respectively.
The decrease in cost of goods sold for the three and six month periods is primarily related to favorable product mix in 2018.
Gross profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, was $232.6 million compared to $206.7 million for the same quarter last year.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.
We record accruals for liabilities where we believe a loss to be probable and reasonably estimable.


