In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
2014-09, "Revenue - Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09").
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.
This new standard has been applied on a modified retrospective transition basis with an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the amount of approximately $80.0 million as of January 1, 2018.
For additional disclosures required by the new revenue standard see Note 2, "Revenue."
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
Excluding the divestiture of the Consumer and SMB Security businesses, we currently expect total annual revenue for 2018 to be higher than 2017 revenue and reported revenue including the divested businesses to be about flat or slightly down when compared to prior year.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.
Cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 were $212.8 million and $654.7 million, compared to cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 of $241.8 million and $684.7 million, respectively.Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Our industry is subject to rapid changes in technology, which may result in unexpected obsolescence or impairment of our assets.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.