fls.txt



item1.txt
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The results of operations for the interim periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the operating results to be expected for any subsequent interim period or for the year ending December 31, 2019.
2018-07, "Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting" ("ASU 2018-07").
2018-15, “Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract” (“ASU 2018-15”).
The amendments in this update align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
Provisions for estimated losses on sales or related receivables are recorded when identified.
See Note 19, "Operating Segments and Related Information - Revenue and Long-Lived Assets by Geographic Area" for information related to the Company’s revenues disaggregated by significant geographical region and operating segment.


item2.txt
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant amount of order cancellations.
Revenue.
Increases in revenues for the three month period in our Industrial and Government and Defense business units were partially offset by declines in the Commercial business unit.
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
International sales accounted for 45.4 percent and 48.7 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
See Note 17, “Contingencies” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company’s legal proceedings.
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies or contractors for these agencies would have a material adverse effect on our business.
For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, approximately 29 percent, 26 percent and 25 percent, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to the United States government and its agencies.
The funding of contracts awarded to us depends on the overall United States government budget and appropriations process, which is beyond our control.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales and these expenses are largely fixed in the short term.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.


