fls.txt



item1.txt
In the opinion of management, these statements have been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements and include all adjustments, consisting of only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations for the interim periods.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
2014-09, "Revenue - Revenue from Contracts with Customers" ("ASU 2014-09").
The Company designs, markets and sells products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products.
Certain customers request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that the Company offers.
Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
The Company regularly enters into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
In such situations, contract values are allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative estimated standalone selling price.
The vast majority of the Company's revenues are recognized at a point in time when goods are transferred to a customer.
The following table presents the Company’s revenues disaggregated by geographical region and operating segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 (in thousands).
Revenue includes certain shipping and handling costs and is stated net of third party agency fees.
Revenue is recognized net of allowances for returns and net of taxes collected from customers which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities.
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled receivables and deferred revenue and advance payments from customers on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on a contract-by-contract basis.
Remaining performance obligations related to ASC 606 represent the aggregate transaction price allocated to performance obligations with an original contract term greater than one year which are fully or partially unsatisfied at the end of the period.


item2.txt
The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations.
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant number of order cancellations.
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
International sales accounted for 48.7 percent and 45.5 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The year over year increase in cost of goods sold is primarily related to higher revenues in 2018.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Additionally, we cannot be certain or give any assurance that any actions taken to reduce known risks and uncertainties will be effective.
Substantial uncertainty exists in the spending levels and priorities of the United States government, particularly with respect to military expenditures.
We maintain inventories of finished goods, components and raw materials at levels we believe are necessary to meet anticipated sales.
Accordingly, we may not be able to reduce our costs in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall between forecasted and actual sales.
Our intangible assets, including goodwill, represent a significant portion of our total assets.
We amortize certain of these intangibles over their anticipated useful life and review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if warranted by events.
Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.
In recognition of these considerations, we have and may in the future enter into material settlements to avoid ongoing costs and efforts in defending or pursuing a matter.


