item1.txt
As of December 31, 2018, the Company had no assets or liabilities measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs.
Upon adoption the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $0.9 million, net of tax adjustment of $0.4 million, which resulted in an increase to the opening accumulated deficit balance on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, primarily driven by deferral of previously recognized revenue within the Brooks Life Sciences segment, offset by deferral of previously recognized commission expense within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and acceleration of revenue within the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment.
As a result, upon adopting the standard the Company deferred previously recognized registration fee revenue for contracts not completed as of the effective date.
The transition service agreement outlines the information technology, people, and facility support the Company expects to provide to Edwards for a period up to 9 months after transaction closing date.
The supply agreement allows the Company to purchase CTI and Polycold goods at cost from Edwards up to an aggregate amount equal to $1.0 million during the one-year term after closing of the Disposition.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company sold marketable securities with a fair value and amortized cost of $49.4 million and $49.5 million, respectively, and recognized net losses of $0.1 million.
As a result, during this period, the Company collected cash proceeds of $48.9 million from the sale of marketable securities and reclassified net unrealized holding losses of $0.1 million from accumulated other comprehensive income into "Other expenses, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations as a result of these transactions.
On the acquisition date, the Company paid $32.3 million to escrow accounts related to the satisfaction of the seller's indemnification obligations with respect to their representations and warranties and other indemnities.
The revenues and net income from GENEWIZ included in the Company's consolidated results for the reporting period since acquisition were $16.4 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, net income included $1.6 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
The Company incurred $10.0 million in transaction costs related to the acquisition of which $6.3 million was incurred during the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The Company recorded a liability of $2.8 million for the unfunded projected benefit obligation related to each plan participant’s future services.
The Company reports the results of operations for Tec-Sem in the Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment starting from the acquisition date.
The revenues and net income from Tec-Sem included in the Company's consolidated results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 were $9.3 million and $1.7 million, respectively.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the net income included $0.2 million related to the step-up in value of the acquired inventories and $0.9 million related to amortization expense of acquired intangible assets.
The remaining $0.8 million of the escrow balance is related to a performance obligation that the Company assumed at the acquisition date for the transfer of non-core wafer stocker technology to an unrelated third party.
During the three months ended December 31, 2017, the Company incurred $0.5 million in non-recurring transaction costs with respect to the 4titude acquisition, which were recorded in "Selling, general and administrative" expenses within the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The total cash payment made by the Company was $5.2 million, net of cash acquired and subject to working capital adjustments.
The Company allocated the purchase price of $5.2 million based on the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired as of the acquisition date, which included $0.3 million of accounts receivable, $2.6 million of customer relationships, $2.7 million of goodwill and $0.7 million of assumed liabilities.
Please refer to Note 7, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to the Company's consolidated financial statements included in the 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the goodwill impairment testing performed during fiscal year 2018.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded a goodwill increase of $234.6 million primarily related to the acquisition of GENEWIZ which represented the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining line of credit financing as deferred financing costs which are presented within "Other assets" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Under the Amendment, the Company obtained an incremental term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million.
The Company would be required to redeem the term loan at the principal amount then outstanding upon occurrence of certain events, including (i) net proceeds received from the sale or other disposition of the Company’s or guarantor’ assets, subject to certain limitations, (ii) casualty and condemnation proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor, subject to certain exceptions, (iii) net proceeds received by the Company or the guarantor from the issuance of debt or disqualified capital stock after October 4, 2017.
Commencing on December 31, 2018, the Company will be required to make principal payments equal to the excess cash flow amount, as defined in the term loan agreement.
The Company records commitment fees and other costs directly associated with obtaining term loan financing as deferred financing costs which are presented as a reduction of the term loan principal balance in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $5.8 million and $0.7 million, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 and the three months ended December 31, 2017.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company recorded $37.4 million of deferred tax liabilities in purchase accounting in connection with the acquisition of GENEWIZ.
Also, as a result of the acquisition, the Company recorded a $13.4 million reserve in purchase accounting for unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions taken by GENEWIZ in prior years.
At December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, the Company had cumulative capitalized direct costs of $6.6 million and $5.6 million, respectively, associated with the development of software for its internal use which are included within "Property, plant and equipment, net" in the accompanying unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheets.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, the Company capitalized direct costs of $0.1 million associated with the development of software for its internal use.
The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the closing price of the Company’s common stock quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market on the date of grant.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, the Company remitted $14.2 million and $6.3 million, respectively, collected from employees to satisfy their tax obligations as a result of share issuances.
As of December 31, 2018, the unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units that are expected to vest is $38.4 million and will be recognized over an estimated weighted average service period of approximately 2.0 years.
The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan that allows its employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the Company’s stock at the beginning or the end of the semi-annual period, whichever is lower.
Contracts within both operating segments may contain acceptance provisions where the Company is required to obtain technical acceptance from the customer upon completion of installation services and evidence of the systems functional performance within the customer’s operating environment.
If the pricing of contract options provides a material right to the customer that it would not receive without entering into the current contract, the Company accounts for the option as a separate performance obligation.
For customer contracts that contain more than one performance obligation, the Company allocates the total transaction consideration to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling price of each performance obligation within the contract.
Performance obligations whose standalone selling price is estimated using an expected cost plus margin approach relate to the sale of customized automated cold sample management systems and service-type warranties within the Brooks Life Sciences segment.
Revenue from the sales of certain products that involve significant customization, which include primarily automated cold sample management systems is recognized over time as the asset created by the Company’s performance does not have alternative use to the Company and an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date is present.
The Company develops profit estimates for long-term contracts based on total revenue expected to be generated from the project and total costs anticipated to be incurred in the project.
These estimates are based on a number of factors, including the degree of required product customization and the work required to be able to install the product in the customer’s existing environment, as well as the Company’s historical experience, project plans and an assessment of the risks and uncertainties inherent in the contract related to implementation delays or performance issues that may or may not be within the Company’s control.
The Company reviews profit estimates for long-term contracts during each reporting period and revises the estimate based on changes in circumstances.
In certain instances, payments collected from customers in advance of recognizing the related revenue are recorded and presented as contract liabilities within Deferred revenue on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In these contracts, revenue recognized may exceed billings, which the Company presents as a contract asset on the balance sheet, which is included within the Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Contract assets represent rights to consideration in exchange for products or services that have been transferred by the Company, when payment is conditional on something other than the passage of time.
Contract asset balances which are included within Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, were $12.6 million and $8.2 million at December 31, 2018 and October 1, 2018, respectively.
These amounts primarily relate to sales commissions within the Brooks Life Sciences segment and are deferred and amortized over a 60 month period, which represents the average period of contract performance.
The Company recorded $0.2 million of amortization expense related to deferred commissions for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
Contract liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to transfer products or services to a customer for which consideration has been received, or for which an amount of consideration is due from the customer.
Contract liabilities are included within Deferred revenue on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Revenue recognized from the contract liability balance at October 1, 2018 was $12.1 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018.
The Company capitalizes sales commissions when incurred if they are (i) incremental costs of obtaining a contract, (ii) expected to be recovered and (iii) have an expected amortization period that is greater than one year.
As part of the Company’s cumulative effect adjustment, incremental costs associated with obtaining a contract were capitalized and have been classified as deferred commissions within the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.
The Company did not capitalize any sales commissions during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as the amount of sales commissions that qualified for 
The segment’s service offerings include sample storage, genomic sequencing, genomic synthesis, lab processing services, lab analysis, and other support services provided to a wide range of life science customers, including pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, biobanks and research institutes.
In conjunction with the acquisition of GENEWIZ during the quarter ended December 31, 2018, the Company reassessed Brooks segment reporting structure and determined that GENEWIZ represents a separate operating segment based on ASC 280.
The Company had no customer that accounted for 10% or more of its consolidated revenue, during each of the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
The Company had non-cancellable contracts and purchase orders for inventory of $95.9 million as of December 31, 2018.


item2.txt
The $6.3 million of cash generated from operating activities during the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 was comprised primarily of earnings of $21.5 million, including net income of $14.4 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $7.1 million, partially offset by uses of cash of $15.2 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions.
We reported revenue of $179.4 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018, compared to $142.6 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $36.8 million, or 26%.
Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported revenue of $112.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to $95.2 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, an increase of $17.5 million, or 18%.
Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported revenue of $66.7 million for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to $47.4 million for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Revenue generated outside the United States was $110.5 million, or 62% of total revenue, for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to $90.7 million, or 64% of total revenue, for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
We reported gross margins of 40.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 compared to 38.1% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $2.0 million of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.9 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 also included $0.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting, as compared to $1.2 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Excluding the purchasing accounting impact related to inventory step-up and the amortization of completed technology, gross margins expanded 1.9 percentage points during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Our Brooks Semiconductor Solutions Group segment reported gross margins of 40.7% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 40.5% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $0.9 million of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.5 million incurred during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
The results for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $0.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting.
Excluding the purchase accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins expanded 0.7 percentage points during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Our Brooks Life Sciences segment reported gross margins of 39.3% for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to 33.2% for the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2018 included $1.1 million of charges for amortization related to completed technology as compared to $0.4 million incurred during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 also included $1.2 million of charges related to the inventory step-up in purchase accounting.
Excluding the purchasing accounting impact and the amortization of completed technology, margins increased 4.4 percentage points for the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Research and development expenses were $13.1 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $11.4 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Higher research and development expenses during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the same period of prior fiscal year were primarily attributable new acquisitions and higher employee related costs.
The increase in interest expense is due to interest on the $350.0 million incremental term loan secured in the first quarter of fiscal year 2019 used to pay a portion of the purchase price for our acquisition of GENEWIZ.
We incurred revenue and net income from discontinued operations of $39.3 million and $8.1 million, respectively for the three months ended December 31, 2018 related to our semiconductor cryogenics business as compared to $46.7 million and $14.9 million, respectively for the three months ended December 31, 2017.
Cash flows provided by operating activities were $6.3 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018, comprised primarily of earnings of $21.5 million, including net income of $14.4 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $7.1 million.
Cash flows provided by operating activities were $3.2 million during the three months ended December 31, 2017 and comprised primarily of earnings of $27.1 million, including net income of $16.5 million and the impact of non-cash related charges of $10.6 million, partially offset by the use of $23.9 million related to the changes in our operating assets and liabilities.
Cash used in investing activities was $398.6 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 as compared to $94.3 million during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
Cash used in investing activities of $398.6 million during the three months ended December 31, 2018 included cash outflow of $445.2 million for the acquisition of GENEWIZ, $3.6 million of capital expenditures, and $1.3 million for the purchases of marketable securities, partially offset by cash inflows from the proceeds of sales and maturities of marketable securities of $51.5 million.
Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2017 included cash payments of $65.1 million for acquisitions, $26.9 million for the purchases of marketable securities and $2.7 million of capital expenditures.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we made principal payments of $1.8 million related to the term loan.
During the three months ended December 31, 2018, we incurred aggregate interest expense of $5.3 million on the term loan.


item3.txt
Most of these transactions or balances are denominated in Euros, British Pounds and a variety of Asian currencies.
Sales in currencies other than the U.S. dollar were approximately 35% and 33% of our total sales, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017.
Such balances were approximately $135.3 million and $84.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2018 and September 30, 2018, and related to the Euro, British Pound and a variety of Asian currencies.
We incurred foreign currency losses of $0.1 million and $2.0 million, respectively, during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, which related to the currency fluctuation on these balances between the time the transaction occurred and the ultimate settlement of the transaction.


part2.txt
The timing and amount of any shares repurchased are based on market and business conditions, legal requirements and other factors and repurchases may be commenced or suspended at any time at our discretion.
There were no shares repurchased under this program during the three months ended December 31, 2018 and there have been no shares repurchased under this program since its inception.


