Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018. Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2018 increased to 3,527 when compared to total unit sales of 3,492 in the third quarter of 2017. 
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 12%, 20%, 19%, and 20%, respectively, from the year-ago period. The marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions. The aviation segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong growth across all product lines. The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by growth in wearables. 
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 13%, 14%, 28%, and 17%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The current quarter marine segment increase was primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions, in addition to sales growth across most product lines. The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by increased sales across most product lines within the segment. 
Operating income increased 11% in absolute dollars and increased 50 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of strong revenue growth and increased gross margins, partially offset by slightly increased operating expenses as a percent of revenue, as discussed above. 
Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 110 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. The growth in operating income in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth and increased gross margins, as discussed above. 
Net sales increased 9% for the 39-week period ended September 29, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to 22% in the first three quarters of 2017. Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the first three quarters of 2017 at 26% and declined to 20% in the first three quarters of 2018. 
In the auto segment, cost of goods sold continued to decline with revenue declines and the slight increase of cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix and promotional activity during the third quarter of 2018. In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the favorable impact of higher margin Navionics sales on product mix. The outdoor segment decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to product mix. The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix. The aviation segment decrease in cost of goods as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago quarter. 
In the auto segment, cost of goods sold continued to decline with revenue declines, and the slight increase of cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily due to the write-down of certain product inventories in the first three quarters of 2018. In the marine segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue primarily resulted from the favorable impact of higher margin Navionics sales on product mix. The fitness segment increase in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by product mix. In the outdoor segment, cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago period. In the aviation segment, the decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in warranty costs compared to the year-ago period. 
The $149.7 million increase in cash used in investing activities in the first three quarters of 2018 compared to the first three quarters of 2017 was primarily due to increased net purchases of marketable securities of $102.4 million and higher cash expenditures for purchases of property and equipment of $36.6 million. 
Cost of goods sold increased 5% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter. The increase in revenue outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 110 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. 
Research and development expense increased $9.3 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions within the marine segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.  Item 6.Exhibits  
 Item 5.Other Information  Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. 
 Item 5.Other Information  
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant. In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017 with no additional shares having been repurchased during the 39-weeks ended September 29, 2018. 
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  