Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
The following information supplements and amends the discussion set forth under Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2018. Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2018 decreased to 3,783 when compared to total unit sales of 3,904 in the second quarter of 2017. 
Total unit sales in the first half of 2018 decreased to 6,739 when compared to the total unit sales of 7,003 in the first half of 2017. 
Auto segment revenue decreased 19% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 4%, 24%, 24%, and 23%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The current quarter marine segment increase was primarily driven by sales of the newly acquired Navionics business, in addition to sales growth across most product lines. The fitness segment revenues increase was primarily driven by strong sales in advanced wearables and cycling products. Outdoor and aviation segment revenue increases were driven by increased sales across most product lines within each segment. 
Operating income increased 4% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. The growth in operating income in absolute dollars is primarily attributable to revenue growth while the slight decrease in operating income as a percent of revenues is primarily attributable to the increased operating expenses, as discussed above. 
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, aviation, marine, and fitness segments collectively increased by 17%, contributing 80% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the second quarter of 2018 compared to 22% in the second quarter of 2017. Auto revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in the second quarter of 2017 at 27% and declined to 20% in the second quarter of 2018. 
Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 11%, 23%, 17%, and 21%, respectively, from the year-ago period. Marine segment revenue increases were primarily driven by sales from recent acquisitions. Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong growth in advanced wearables and newly introduced products. Outdoor segment revenue increases were primarily driven by significant growth in the wearable category. Aviation revenue increases were driven by strong sales across most product lines. 
Operating income increased 10% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis was the result of strong revenue growth. Operating income was relatively flat as a percent of revenue primarily due to an increase in gross margin, offset by increased operating expenses as discussed above. 
Research and development expense increased $14.5 million in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase was primarily due to engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions within the marine segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 
Advertising expense increased 4% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter. The total absolute dollar increase was driven primarily by increased cooperative advertising associated with higher sales. Auto advertising expense, in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue, increased compared to the year-ago quarter primarily due to a refresh of point-of-sale displays. Outdoor advertising expense decreased in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenues due to reduced media advertising spend. Advertising expense, as a percent of revenues, decreased in the fitness segment due to greater leverage on fitness advertising spend. 
Cost of goods sold increased 7% in absolute dollars compared to the prior year quarter. The increase in revenues outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 30 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago quarter. 
Cost of goods sold increased 6% in absolute dollars for the 26-week period ended June 30, 2018 when compared to the year-ago period. The increase in revenues outpaced the increase in cost of goods sold, which resulted in a 100 basis point decrease in cost of goods sold as a percent of revenues compared to the year-ago period.  Item 6.Exhibits 
 Item 5.Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. 
 Item 5.Other Information 
The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares as market and business conditions warrant. In December 2016, the Board of Directors authorized an extension through December 31, 2017 to purchase remaining common shares. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017 with no additional shares having been repurchased during the 26-weeks ended June 30, 2018.  
 Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 