Total unit sales in the third quarter of 2019 increased to 3,659 when compared to total unit sales of 3,527 in the third quarter of 2018. 
Advertising expense increased 2% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. Increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor segment was partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments. 
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 12%, 16%, 13%, and 22%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in adventure watches, golf and inReach product lines. Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx. Marine segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 13% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 
Net sales increased 10% for the 39-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 16%, contributing 84% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 25% in the first three quarters of 2019 compared to 24% in the first three quarters of 2018. 
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars. The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments, partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising in the auto and aviation segments. 
Net sales increased 15% for the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 24%, contributing 85% of total revenue. Outdoor was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 28% in the third quarter of 2019 compared to 26% in the third quarter of 2018. 
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 23%, 28%, 9%, and 28%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by adventure watches. The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers. The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, led primarily by chartplotters. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 17% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to lower OEM sales in the current quarter and the ongoing PND market contraction. 
Operating income increased 33% in absolute dollars and 380 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 
The $129.0 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to increased cash payments for acquisitions of $246.1 million, partially offset by decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $85.6 million and cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $30.4 million. 
Operating income increased 20% in absolute dollars and increased 220 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, improved gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue decreased 130 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 7% in absolute dollars. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the third quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to greater leverage of operating costs. 
The $237.6 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the first three quarters of 2019 compared to the first three quarters of 2018 was primarily due to the increase in cash used in working capital of $310.6 million (which included a decrease of $98.0 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a net increase of $126.7 million in cash paid for inventory associated primarily with the Company’s effort to increase days of supply to support our increasingly diversified product lines, and a net increase of $85.9 million in cash used in other activities primarily driven by payments associated with an amendment to a license agreement) and income taxes payable of $34.5 million. These decreases were partially offset by the year over year increase in net income and other non-cash adjustments of $107.5 million. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx. 
The Company recorded income tax expense of $29.9 million in the 13-week period ended September 28, 2019, compared to income tax expense of $17.1 million in the 13-week period ended September 29, 2018. The effective tax rate was 11.6% in the third quarter of 2019, compared to 8.5% in the third quarter of 2018. The 310 basis points increase to the third quarter of 2019 effective tax rate compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to a decrease in uncertain tax position reserves released due to expiring statutes of limitations in the third quarter of 2019 compared to the third quarter of 2018. Item 6. Exhibits Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
Item 6. Exhibits 