As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended March 30, 2019 was $140.2 million compared to $129.4 million for the 13-week period ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $10.8 million. 
Total unit sales in the first quarter of 2019 increased to 3,182 when compared to total unit sales of 2,956 in the first quarter of 2018. 
Net sales increased 8% for the 13-week period ended March 30, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 24% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 23% in the first quarter of 2018.   
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 7%, 9%, 18%, and 17%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor and fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables. The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 10% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 
Advertising expense increased 9% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The total absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased media advertising in the outdoor segment and increased cooperative advertising in the fitness and marine segments. 
The $80.0 million decrease in cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018 was primarily due to decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $73.2 million and cash payments for acquisitions of $9.4 million, partially offset by $2.6 million net cash used in other activities. 
Operating income increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago quarter. In the current quarter, the growth in operating income in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue and gross profit dollar growth, partially offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above. 
Research and development expense increased 3% in absolute dollars and decreased 90 basis points as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase in absolute dollars was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the first quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs and legal related costs. 
The Company is a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, which serve the outdoor, fitness, marine, auto and aviation markets. The Company’s segments offer consumer products through its network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, and also maintains relationships with many original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments may vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately.   Item 6.Exhibits  
 Item 5.Other Information 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
 Item 5.Other Information 
 Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 