As a result of the above, net income for the 13-weeks ended June 29, 2019 was $223.7 million compared to $190.3 million for the 13-week period ended June 29, 2018, an increase of $33.4 million. 
Total unit sales in the second quarter of 2019 increased to 3,838 when compared to total unit sales of 3,783 in the second quarter of 2018. 
Total unit sales in the first half of 2019 increased to 7,019 when compared to the total unit sales of 6,739 in the first half of 2018. 
Net sales increased 7% for the 13-week period ended June 29, 2019 when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segments collectively increased by 12%, contributing 83% of total revenue. Fitness was the largest portion of our revenue mix at 26% in the second quarter of 2019 compared to 25% in the second quarter of 2018. 
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenues increased 5%, 10%, 15%, and 19%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period. The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in golf and inReach product lines. Fitness segment revenue increases were primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from newly acquired Tacx. Marine segment revenue increases were primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 12% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 
Operating income increased 18% in absolute dollars and increased 250 basis points when compared to the year-ago quarter. In the current quarter, the operating income growth in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to revenue growth and gross margin improvement. The increase in operating income as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to improved gross margin and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 
Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation segment revenue increased 4%, 12%, 13%, and 20%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago quarter. The outdoor segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in golf and inReach product lines. The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers. The current quarter marine segment revenue increase was primarily driven by sales growth in chartplotters and sonar products. The aviation segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth across most product lines in both OEM and aftermarket categories. Auto segment revenue decreased 13% from the year-ago quarter, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. 
Advertising expense as a percent of revenue was slightly lower when compared to the year-ago quarter and decreased 5% in absolute dollars. The total absolute dollar decrease was primarily attributable to decreased cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment and decreased media advertising in the fitness segment, slightly offset by increased media and cooperative advertising in the outdoor segment. 
Operating income increased 13% in absolute dollars and increased 130 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The growth in operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, slight increase in gross margin, and leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. 
Advertising expense was relatively flat in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. Increases in cooperative advertising in the outdoor and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor segment were generally offset by decreases in cooperative advertising and point-of-sale display advertising expense in the auto segment. 
Research and development expense as a percent of revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago quarter and increased 5% in absolute dollars. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs related to wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories.  
The $160.5 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the first half of 2019 compared to the first half of 2018 was primarily due to increased cash payments for acquisitions of $266.6 million, partially offset by decreased net purchases of marketable securities of $72.9 million and decreased cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $31.6 million. 
Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago quarter. The absolute dollar increase in the second quarter of 2019 was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions. The fitness segment increase as a percent of revenue was primarily due to expenses from newly acquired Tacx. The auto segment decrease as a percent of revenue was primarily due to less amortization expense associated with intangible assets. Item 6. Exhibits 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Item 1. Legal Proceedings 
Item 6. Exhibits 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 