ITEM 4.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
As of June 30, 2018, the Company completed an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures.
Based on the evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Beginning January 1, 2018, the Company implemented ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
Although the new revenue standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements, the Company developed new policies and trainings, and enhanced internal controls to ensure an adequate evaluation of customer contracts and a proper assessment of the impact of the new accounting standards related to revenue recognition.
These enhancements to the internal controls are not considered significant.
There have been no other changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company’s fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.
ITEM 5.OTHER INFORMATION
None.
ITEM 6.EXHIBITS
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
