ITEM 2.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (the “Report”), including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part I, Item 2, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding future events and the future results of FLIR Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (“FLIR” or the “Company”) that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions about the Company’s business.
Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “sees,” “estimates” and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements due to numerous factors including, but not limited to, those discussed in “Risk Factors” section in Part II, Item 1A of this Report, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part I, Item 2, and elsewhere in this Report as well as those discussed from time to time in the Company’s other Securities and Exchange Commission filings and reports.
In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry, economic, and market conditions.
Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Report, or for changes made to this document by wire services or Internet service providers.
If the Company updates or corrects one or more forward-looking statements, investors and others should not conclude that the Company will make additional updates or corrections with respect to other forward-looking statements.
Consolidated Operating Results
The following discussion of operating results provides an overview of our operations by addressing key elements in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations.
Given the nature of our business, we believe revenue and earnings from operations (including operating margin percentage) are most relevant to an understanding of our performance at a segment level.
Additionally, at the segment level we disclose backlog, which represents orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months.
Backlog is not an absolute indicator of future revenue because a portion of the orders in backlog could be canceled at the customer's discretion.
While the backlog is subject to order cancellations, we have not historically experienced a significant amount of order cancellations.
Revenue.
Consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019, increased by 1.2 percent year over year, from $439.6 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $444.7 million in the first quarter of 2019.
Increases in revenues for the three month period in our Industrial and Government and Defense business units were partially offset by declines in the Commercial business unit.
The timing of orders, scheduling of backlog, and fluctuations in demand in various regions of the world can give rise to quarter to quarter and year over year fluctuations in the mix of revenue.
Consequently, year over year comparisons for any given quarter may not be indicative of comparisons using longer time periods.
We currently expect total annual revenue for 2019 to be higher than 2018 revenue, however, unexpected changes in economic conditions from key customer markets or other major unanticipated events may cause total revenue, and the mix of revenue between our segments, to vary from quarter to quarter during the year.
International sales accounted for 45.4 percent and 48.7 percent of total revenue for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The proportion of our international revenue compared to total revenue will fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to normal variation in order activity across various regions as well as specific factors that may affect one region and not another.
Overall, we anticipate that revenue from international sales will continue to comprise a significant percentage of total revenue.
Cost of goods sold.
Cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $211.1 million compared to cost of goods sold for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of $221.7 million.
The decrease in cost of goods sold for the three month periods is primarily related to the decline in our Commercial business unit, which was largely a result of our divestiture of the Consumer and Small and Medium-sized ("SMB") Security businesses as announced in February 2018.
Gross profit.
Gross profit for the quarter ended March 31, 2019, was $233.7 million compared to $217.9 million for the same quarter last year.
Gross margin, defined as gross profit divided by revenue, increased from 49.6 percent in the first quarter of 2018 to 52.5 percent in the first quarter of 2019.
The increase in gross margin for the three and nine month periods was primarily due to product mix in the Government and Defense business unit and product mix and productivity improvement in the Industrial business unit.
Research and development expenses.
Research and development expenses for the first quarter of 2019 totaled $48.0 million, compared to $44.6 million in the first quarter of 2018.
Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue were 10.8 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 10.1 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
We have, and will continue to have, fluctuations in quarterly spending depending on product development needs and overall business spending priorities and believe that annual spending levels are most indicative of our commitment to research and development.
Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2018, our annual research and development expenses have varied between 8.5 percent and 9.9 percent of revenue, and we currently expect these expenses to remain within that approximate range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $104.6 million and $107.7 million for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The decrease in selling, general, and administrative expenses year over year is primarily attributed to a $15 million regulatory settlement recorded in the first quarter of 2018 partially offset by acquisition related expenses for acquisitions occurring in the first quarter of 2019.
Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue were 23.5 percent and 24.5 percent for the quarters ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Over the past five annual periods through December 31, 2018, our annual selling, general and administrative expenses have varied between 19.4 percent and 21.8 percent of revenue, and excluding the impact of the $15.0 million regulatory settlement cost described above, we currently expect these expenses to remain within that approximate range, on an annual basis, for the foreseeable future.
Loss on sale of business.
During the first quarter of 2018, we recorded an additional pre-tax loss on the sale of our Consumer and SMB Security businesses of $10.2 million.
See Note 20, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Interest expense.
Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019, was $5.5 million, compared to $4.1 million for the same period of 2018.
Interest expense for the three month period in 2019 was primarily associated with the $425 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes and interest on amounts drawn under our credit facility.
Interest expense for the same period in 2018 was primarily associated with the $425 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes.
Income taxes.
Our income tax provision of $13.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019, represents an effective tax rate of 17.4 percent.
Our income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $15.4 million, which represented an effective tax rate of 28.2 percent.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 is lower than the United States Federal tax rate of 21 percent mainly due to a reduction in previously non-deductible interest expense and excess tax benefits from stock compensation, offset partially by state taxes, higher tax rates applied to income earned in certain foreign jurisdictions, and other discrete items.
Segment Operating Results
The Company is currently organized into three reportable segments.
The three reportable segments continue to be the Industrial business unit, Government and Defense business unit and the Commercial business unit.
See Note 19, “Operating Segments and Related Information,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of each operating segment, including the types of products and services from which each operating segment derives its revenues.
Industrial
Industrial business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 increased by 5.1 percent compared to the same period of 2018.
The increase in revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018, was predominately attributable to strong growth across the cooled cores and UAS product lines partially offset by volume declines in the Integrated Imaging Systems (IIS) business.
The increases in earnings from operations and corresponding operating margin for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018, were predominately attributable to favorable product mix in the OEM cores business and productivity initiatives to improve manufacturing efficiency across all divisions.
The decline in backlog during the three months ended March 31, 2019 is primarily attributed to productivity initiatives executed during the period to reduce lead times for customer deliveries of our machine vision and volume hand-held product lines.
Government and Defense
Government and Defense business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 increased by 8.8 percent compared to the same period of 2018.
The increase in both revenue and earnings from operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018, was primarily driven by increased volumes of UAS products and surveillance systems as well as the partial period revenue related to the acquisitions of Aeryon Labs Inc. and Endeavor Robotics Holdings Inc. during the quarter ended March 31, 2019.
The decline in operating margin for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the same period of 2018 is also attributed to the inclusion of the results from these acquisitions.
See Note 20, "Business Acquisitions and Divestitures," for further information.
The increase in year-over-year backlog is primarily driven by timing of orders and subsequent timing of deployment of major programs in addition to the first quarter of 2019 acquisitions as noted above.
Commercial
Commercial business unit revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2019 decreased by 16.1 percent compared to the same period of 2018.
The decrease in both revenue and earnings from operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period of 2018 was primarily due to the divestiture of our Consumer and SMB Security business during the first quarter of 2018 and volume declines in our Outdoor and Tactical Systems ("OTS") business.
The decrease in year over year backlog is primarily attributed to a shift to non-current backlog for certain orders as well as volume declines in the OTS business.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
At March 31, 2019, we had a total of $284.4 million in cash and cash equivalents, $95.2 million of which resided in the United States and $189.2 million at our foreign subsidiaries, compared to cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2018, of $512.1 million, of which $327.0 million resided in the United States and $185.1 million at our foreign subsidiaries.
The decrease in cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to cash used for business acquisitions of $579.6 million, common stock repurchases of $25.0 million, dividend payments of $23.0 million, a minority interest investment of $5.0 million and capital expenditures of $9.1 million, partially offset by cash provided from operations of $55.5 million, net proceeds of $348.1 million from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt, and proceeds of $9.7 million from shares issued under our stock compensation plans.
Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 totaled $55.5 million, which primarily consisted of net earnings, adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, other non-cash items and changes in working capital.
The increase of cash provided by operating activities in 2019 over 2018 was due to an increase in net income and working capital improvements.
Cash used by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 totaled $590.7 million, which consisted primarily of business acquisitions, a minority interest investment and capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business.
Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 totaled $308.3 million, which primarily consisted of cash provided from net proceeds from our revolving credit facility and long-term debt, and proceeds from shares issued under our stock compensation plans, partially offset by repurchases of shares of our common stock and the payment of quarterly dividends.
On March 29, 2019, we entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, Citibank, N.A., MUFG Union Bank, N.A., and the other lenders party thereto.
The Credit Agreement amended and restated the Company's existing Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2016 ("Existing Credit Agreement").
The Credit Agreement provides for a $650.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, a $100.0 million unsecured term loan facility available in U.S. dollars amortizing at 5.000 percent per annum, and a $150.0 million unsecured term loan facility available in Swedish kronor amortizing at 5.000 percent per annum.
The Credit Agreement has a term of five years and matures on March 29, 2024.
In connection with the closing of the Credit Agreement, we made an initial borrowing of $100.0 million in revolving loans, $100.0 million in term loans in U.S. dollars, and the equivalent of $150.0 million in term loans in Swedish kronor.
Additionally we repaid in full all outstanding amounts, consisting of revolving loans in an aggregate principal amount of $375.0 million, under the Existing Credit Agreement.
We have the right, subject to certain conditions, including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the availability under the revolving credit facility by an additional $200.0 million until March 29, 2024.
The Credit Agreement allows us and certain designated subsidiaries to borrow in United States dollars, European euros, Swedish kronor, British pound sterling, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars, and other agreed upon currencies.
Interest rates under the Credit Agreement fluctuate depending on the type and tenor of the borrowing, with the most common being a Eurocurrency rate loan based on the published Eurocurrency rate (i.e.
LIBOR) in which the loan is denominated.
Any amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement bear interest, at our election, at either (A) the rate of interest paid for deposits in the relevant currency (the "Eurocurrency Base Rate") plus an applicable margin between 1.000 percent to 1.375 percent, or (B) the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.500%, (ii) the prime lending rate of Bank of America, N.A.
or (iii) the Eurocurrency Base Rate plus 1.000%, in each case plus an applicable margin between 0.000% and 0.375%, depending on our consolidated total leverage ratio.
At March 31, 2019, the borrowing rate on the revolving loan was 3.749 percent per annum, the borrowing rate on the U.S. dollar term loan was 3.851 percent per annum and the borrowing rate on the Swedish kronor term loan was 1.243 percent per annum.
The Credit Agreement requires us to pay a commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving commitments at a rate, based on our consolidated total leverage ratio, which ranges from 0.125 percent to 0.200 percent of unused revolving commitments.
At March 31, 2019, the commitment fee on the amount of unused revolving credit was 0.175 percent per annum.
The Credit Agreement contains one financial covenant that requires maintenance of a consolidated total leverage ratio with which we were in compliance at March 31, 2019.
The credit facilities available under the Credit Agreement are unsecured.
The Credit Agreement also contains language providing for the adoption of a LIBOR successor rate consistent with market practice.
To manage the interest rate risk arising from the variability in interest expense attributable to amounts drawn under the Swedish kronor term loan, we entered into a floored amortizing interest rate swap with a Swedish kronor notional amount equivalent to $150.0 million.
The interest rate swap was designated, and effective, as cash flow hedges.
We had $11.0 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement at March 31, 2019, which reduced the total availability under the revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement.
In June 2016, we issued $425.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.125 percent senior unsecured notes due June 15, 2021 (the “Notes”).
The net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were approximately $421.0 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses, which are being amortized over a period of five years.
Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on December 15 and June 15.
The proceeds from the Notes were used to repay our 3.750 percent senior unsecured notes that were due September 1, 2016, and are being used for general corporate purposes, which include working capital and capital expenditure needs, business acquisitions, and repurchases of our common stock.
On February 8, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
This authorization expired on February 8, 2019.
On February 7, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
This authorization will expire on February 7, 2021.
As of March 31, 2019, a total of 0.5 million shares have been repurchased under the February 7, 2019 authorization.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the Company has accrued income tax liabilities of $42.9 million related to the transition tax enacted on December 22, 2017 as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Of the amounts accrued, none are expected to be due within one year.
The remaining transition tax will not accrue interest and will be paid in annual installments beginning in 2020 through 2024.
We have not provided United States, state or foreign income taxes for earnings generated after January 1, 2018 by certain subsidiaries outside the United States as we currently intend to reinvest the earnings in operations and other activities outside of the United States indefinitely.
Should we subsequently elect to repatriate such foreign earnings, we would need to accrue and pay state and foreign income taxes, thereby reducing the amount of our cash.
United States taxes would generally not be payable due to changes made by the Tax Act.
We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate generating from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months.
We do not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As of March 31, 2019, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Preparation of the financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Management believes the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the consolidated financial statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain.
Readers should refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis and the critical accounting policies and its use of estimates as reported in Note 1, "Nature of Business and Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 14, "Contingencies" of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018.
Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management's estimates.
There have been no significant changes in the Company's assumptions regarding critical accounting estimates during the first three months of 2019.
Contractual Obligations
There were no material changes to the Company's contractual obligations outside the ordinary course of its business during the quarter ended March 31, 2019, other than the $100 million borrowed under the revolving credit facility and $250 million borrowed under the term loan facility and related interest under the Credit Agreement, as described above in "Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Contingencies
See Note 17, "Contingencies," of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the disclosure of certain matters by the Company to the United States Department of State Office of Defense Trade Controls Compliance, communications to the Company from the United States Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security, and the Company's current estimates of the range of potential loss associated with quality concerns identified by the Company regarding certain SkyWatch Surveillance Towers.
ITEM 2.UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
All share repurchases are subject to applicable securities law, and are at times and in amounts as management deems appropriate.
These repurchases were through open market transactions under the authorization by our Board of Directors on February 7, 2019 to repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
This authorization will expire on February 7, 2021.
