Basic per share amounts are the same for Class A and Class B Common Shares. Diluted per share amounts for Class A Common Shares are shown above. Diluted earnings per share for Class B Common Shares under the two-class method are $0.05 and $0.09 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. See Note D to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
A. Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (“American Software” or the “Company”). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance. The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. Under this method, the Company elected to apply the cumulative effect method to contracts that are not complete as of the adoption date. The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting the fiscal year ending April 30, 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract. In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit which the Company has determined to be six years, which has an impact of $1.1 million. As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet is expected to be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase to contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.  
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. The ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption of the update is permitted. The Company currently expects that most of its operating lease commitments will be subject to the new standard and recognized as operating lease liabilities and right-of-use assets upon adoption.  
B. Revenue Recognition  
Nature of Products and Services.  
Subscription Fees. Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in a hosted environment by the Company or by a third party and the customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty. The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually. The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.  
Professional Services and other. Our services revenue consists of fees generated from consulting, implementation and training services, including reimbursements of out-pocket expenses in connection with our services. Services are typically optional to our customers, and are distinct from our software. Fees for our services are separately priced and are generally billed on an hourly basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed. We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed. The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $331,000 and $525,000 for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.  
Maintenance. Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services. Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer. Maintenance terms typically range from one to three years. Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term, and therefore, time is the best measure of progress.  
Significant Judgments. Our contracts with customers typically contain promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract. We allocate the transaction price to distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price (“SSP”). We estimate SSP primarily based on the prices charged to customers for products or services sold on a standalone basis, or by using information such as market conditions and other observable inputs. However, the selling prices of our software licenses are highly variable or uncertain. Therefore, we estimate SSP for software licenses using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price less the SSP of other products and services promised in the contract. When performing relative selling price allocations, we use the contract price as its estimate of SSP if it falls within the Company’s range estimate of SSP since any point within the range would be a valid price point on a standalone basis. If the contract price falls outside of the range of SSP, the Company will use the nearest point in the SSP range in its relative selling price allocation.  
We have an unconditional right to consideration for all goods and services transferred to our customers. That unconditional right to consideration is reflected in billed and unbilled accounts receivable in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet in accordance with ASC 606.  
Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services. We typically invoice customers for cloud subscription and support fees in advance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, with payment due at the start of the cloud subscription or support term. During the three months ended July 31, 2018, we recognized $13 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of April 30, 2018, as adjusted for Topic 606, at the beginning of the period.  
Remaining Performance Obligations. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under Topic 606. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring the promised good or service to the customer. The Company identifies and tracks the performance obligations at contract inception so that the Company can monitor and account for the performance obligations over the life of the contract. Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of orders for which products have not been delivered or services have not been performed. As of July 31, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $54 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately three-quarters of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter.  
-The Company does not evaluate a contract for a significant financing component if payment is expected within one year or less from the transfer of the promised items to the customer.  
-The Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it has the right to invoice for services performed (apply to time-and-material engagements).  
The costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the Company can specifically identify.  
The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.  
The costs are expected to be recovered.  
Certain sales commissions incurred by the Company were determined to be incremental costs to obtain the related contracts, which are deferred and amortized ratably over the economic benefit period. These deferred commission costs are classified as current or non-current based on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense. The current and non-current portions of deferred commissions are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other long-term assets, respectively, in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. Total deferred commissions at July 31, 2018 and April 30, 2018 were $2.4 million and $2.5 million, respectively. Amortization of sales commissions was $0.2 million for the three months ended July 31, 2018, which is included in sales and marketing expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of operations. No impairment losses were recognized during the periods.  
C. Declaration of Dividend Payable  
On May 16, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock. The cash dividend is payable on August 31, 2018 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on August 17, 2018.  
D. Earnings Per Common Share  
For our diluted earnings per share calculation for Class B Common Shares, we use the “two-class” method. This calculation does not assume that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares. In addition, this method assumes the dilutive effect if Class A stock options were converted to Class A Common Shares and the undistributed earnings are allocated evenly to both Class A and B Common Shares including Class A Common Shares issued pursuant to those converted stock options. This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares into Class A Common Shares.  
For the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, we excluded options to purchase 130 and 1,024,917 Class A Common Shares, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per Class A Common Shares. We excluded these option share amounts because the exercise prices of those options were greater than the average market price of the Class A Common Shares during the applicable period. As of July 31, 2018, we had a total of 3,535,823 options outstanding and, as of July 31, 2017, we had a total of 3,833,630 options outstanding.  
E. Stock-Based Compensation  
During the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, we granted options for 557,000 and 872,000 shares of common stock, respectively. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The forfeiture rates are estimated using historical data. We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $398,000 and $316,000, and income tax excess benefits of approximately $274,000 and shortfall of $33,000 from option exercises during the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We record stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period directly to additional paid-in capital.  
During the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, we issued 295,813 and 101,516 shares of common stock, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017 based on market value at the exercise dates was approximately $1.7 million and $207,000, respectively. As of July 31, 2018, unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards approximated $4.4 million, which we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 1.96 years.  
F. Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
Level 1—Quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.  
Level 2—Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets.  
Level 3—Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.  
Cash Equivalents—Cash equivalents include investments in government obligation based money-market funds, other money market instruments and interest-bearing deposits with initial terms of three months or less. The fair value of cash equivalents approximates its carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.  
Marketable Securities—Marketable securities utilizing Level 1 inputs include active exchange-traded equity securities and equity index funds, and most U.S. Government debt securities, as these securities all have quoted prices in active markets. Marketable securities utilizing Level 2 inputs include municipal bonds. We value these securities using market-corroborated pricing or other models that use observable inputs such as yield curves.  
G. Stock Repurchases  
H. Comprehensive Income  
The SCM segment consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain operations to gain a competitive advantage. Recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI), as well as (i) Demand Management, Inc (“DMI”), which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo Business Inteligence (“Halo”), which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance. The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.  
fiscal 2018 recast to adjust for corporate overhead and other common expenses, which were no longer allocated starting fiscal 2019.  
No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017.  
K. Subsequent Event  
On August 22, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock. The cash dividend is payable on December 5, 2018 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on November 19, 2018.  
We are not currently involved in legal proceedings requiring disclosure under this item.  
 Item 1A.  
