 Item 2.  
liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures;  
demand for and pricing of our products and services;  
annual contract value (“ACV”);  
viability and effectiveness of strategic alliances;  
In October 2018, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook (“WEO”) for the 2018 and 2019 world economic growth forecast. The update noted that, “Global growth is projected at 3.7 percent for 2018– 19—0.2 percentage point lower for both years than forecast in April. In the United States, momentum is still strong as fiscal stimulus continues to increase, but the forecast for 2019 has been revised down due to recently announced trade measures, including the tariffs imposed on $200 billion of US imports from China. Growth projections have been marked down for the euro area and the United Kingdom, following surprises that suppressed activity in early 2018. Among emerging market and developing economies, the growth prospects of many energy exporters have been lifted by higher oil prices, but growth was revised down for Argentina, Brazil, Iran, and Turkey, among others, reflecting country-specific factors, tighter financial conditions, geopolitical tensions, and higher oil import bills. China and a number of Asian economies are also projected to experience somewhat weaker growth in 2019 in the aftermath of the recently announced trade measures.”  
Table of Contents 
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases. If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.  
The SCM segment primarily consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain operations to gain a competitive advantage and which is recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI). The SCM segment also includes (i) DMI, which delivers affordable, easy-to-use Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) NGC, which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo, which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance. The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.  
Our cost of revenue for licenses includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to license revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI. Costs for maintenance and services include the cost of personnel to conduct implementations and customer support, consulting, other personnel-related expenses, and agent commission expenses related to maintenance revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI. We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC. We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues. We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.  
Table of Contents 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
Table of Contents 
Table of Contents 
For the three months ended October 31, 2018, the 6% increase in revenues over the three months ended October 31, 2017 was attributable primarily to a 64% increase in subscription fees revenues and to a lesser extent a 7% increase in maintenance revenues, when compared to the same period last year. This increase was partially offset by a 18% decrease in license revenues.  
For the six months ended October 31, 2018, the 4% increase in revenues over the six months ended October 31, 2017 was attributable primarily to a 78% increase in subscription fees revenues, and to a lesser extent a 7% increase in maintenance revenues and a 3% increase in professional services revenues, when compared to the same period last year. This increase was partially offset by a 43% decrease in license revenues.  
International revenues represented approximately 20% of total revenues in the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Our revenues, in particular our international revenues, may fluctuate substantially from period to period primarily because we derive most of our license fee revenues from a relatively small number of customers in a given period.  
License Revenues  
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, license fee revenues decreased 18% and 43%, respectively, when compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, license fee revenues from our SCM segment decreased 21% and 44%, respectively, when compared to the corresponding periods in the prior year due to an increase in sales of our products on Logility’s cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years. For the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our SCM segment constituted approximately 96% and 100% of total license fee revenues, respectively. For the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our SCM segment constituted approximately 97% and 100% of total license fee revenues, respectively. Our Other segment license fee revenues increased by 627% and 355%, respectively, for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to timing of additional sales to our existing ERP customers.  
Table of Contents 
The direct sales channel provided approximately 93% and 91% of license fee revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, compared to approximately 60% and 76% in the comparable periods last year. The increase in the percentage of sales by our direct sales channel was due to our indirect channel selling proportionately more SaaS than license contracts compared to our direct channel. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our margins after commissions on direct sales were approximately 85% and 88%, compared to 91% and 86% in the comparable periods last year. The decrease in margins is due to the mix of sales commission rates based on each individual salesperson’s quotas and related achievement. For the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 60% and 43%, respectively. For the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 55% and 37%, respectively. The indirect channel margins for the current quarter increased compared to the same periods in the prior year due to the mix of value-added reseller (“VAR”) commission rates. These margin calculations include only commission expense for comparative purposes and do not include other costs of license fees such as amortization of capitalized software.  
Subscription Fees  
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, subscription fees revenues increased by 64% and 78%, respectively, primarily due to the increased subscription fees revenues from our SCM segment which increased sales of our products on our cloud services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years.  
For the six months ended October 31, 2018, cloud services ACV increased approximately 46% to $14.5 million compared to $9.9 million in the same period of the prior year due to increased sales of our products on our Cloud Services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years. ACV is a forward-looking operating measure used by management to better understand cloud services (SaaS and other related cloud services) revenue trends within our business, as it reflects our current estimate of revenue to be generated under existing client contracts in the forward 12-month period.  
Professional Services and other revenues  
Table of Contents 
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, professional services and other revenues were flat and increased by 3%, respectively, due to the increased professional services and other revenues from our Other and IT Consulting segments. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in professional services and other revenues from our SCM segment. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our Other segment’s revenues increased 53% and 22% when compared to the same periods last year. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our IT Consulting segment’s revenues increased 14% and 18% when compared to the same periods in the prior year due to an increase in project work from existing and new customers. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our SCM segment’s revenues decreased 11% and 9%, primarily because certain implementation project work ended during the quarter before new projects could start. We have observed that there is a tendency for services and other revenues, other than from IT Consulting, to lag changes in license and subscription revenues by one to three quarters, as new licenses and subscriptions in one quarter often involve implementation and consulting services in subsequent quarters, for which we recognize revenues only as we perform those services.  
Maintenance Revenues  
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, maintenance revenues increased 7% when compared to the same periods in the prior year. Our SCM maintenance revenue increased 8% and 7% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, when compared to the same periods last year due primarily to our recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and improved customer retention. The SCM segment accounted for 97% of total maintenance revenues for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 and accounted for 97% and 93% for the same periods in the prior year. Typically, our maintenance revenues have had a direct relationship to current and historic license fee revenues, since new licenses are the potential source of new maintenance customers.  
Table of Contents 
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our total gross margin percentages decreased when compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to our lower margins on license fee revenue and professional services and other revenue, partially offset by higher margins on subscription fees and maintenance revenue.  
Gross Margin on License Fees  
License fee gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 decreased when compared to the same period in the prior year. License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.  
Gross Margin on Subscription Fees  
Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues increased from 56% and 52% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2017 to 61% and 64% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, primarily due to the increase in subscription revenue, combined with a lower incremental increase in cost.  
Gross Margin on Professional Services and Other  
Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues decreased from 32% for the three months ended October 31, 2017 to 27% for the three months ended October 31, 2018. Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues decreased from 31% for the six months ended October 31, 2017 to 24% for the six months ended October 31, 2018. This decrease was primarily due to lower gross margins in our SCM segment services of 28% and 32% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, and 23% and 31% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, due to lower billing utilization from several large projects ending during the quarter. Our Other segment professional services gross margin increased from 28% to 51% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and from 33% to 45% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, due to higher margin projects in the current quarter. Our IT Consulting segment professional services gross margin increased from 23% to 24% for the three months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and 21% to 24% for the six months ended October 31, 2018 and 2017, due to higher margin projects in the current quarter. Professional services and other gross margin is directly related to the level of services and other revenues. The primary component of cost of services and other revenues is services staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.  
Gross Margin on Maintenance  
Maintenance gross margin percentage for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 increased to 81% from 79% when compared to the same periods last year due to an increase in maintenance revenue. The primary cost component is maintenance staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.  
Table of Contents 
Research and Development  
Included in cost of license fees and subscription fees.  
Sales and Marketing  
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, sales and marketing expenses increased 20% and 8%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to increased headcount in our SCM segment.  
General and Administrative  
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, general and administrative expenses increased 22% and 20%, respectively, when compared to the same periods a year ago, primarily due to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  
At October 31, 2018, the total number of employees was 452 compared to 390 at October 31, 2017.  
Table of Contents 
Our SCM segment operating income decreased by 15% and 27% in the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 compared to the same periods in the prior year primarily due to the recent Halo acquisition in the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  
Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income increased by 11% and 28% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 compared to same periods last year primarily due to increased revenues and gross margins.  
Our Other segment operating loss increased by 59% and 71% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018 when compared to the same periods in the prior year because all corporate overhead and common expenses are included in this segment in fiscal 2019.  
Other Income  
Other income is comprised of net interest and dividend income, rental income, exchange rate gains and losses, and realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments. For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, the decrease in other income is mainly due to higher unrealized losses on investments when compared to the same periods last year. We recorded losses of approximately $700,000 and $312,000 for the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio. We recorded gains of approximately $268,000 and $381,000 the three and six months ended October 31, 2017, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.  
For the three and six months ended October 31, 2018, our investments generated an annualized yield of approximately 1.32% and 1.40%, respectively, compared to approximately 1.30% and 1.38% for the three and six months ended October 31, 2017, respectively.  
Operating Pattern  
Table of Contents 
Sources and Uses of Cash  
We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities. The changes in net cash that our operating activities provide generally reflect the changes in net earnings and non-cash operating items plus the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities, such as investment trading securities, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenue. We have no debt obligations or off-balance sheet financing arrangements, and therefore, we used no cash for debt service purposes.  
Table of Contents 
The increase in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was due primarily to an increase in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by lower capitalized computer software development costs.  
The increase in cash used in financing activities compared to the prior year was due primarily to an increase in dividends paid, partially offset by a decrease in proceeds from exercise of stock options.  
Our total activities used more cash and investments during the six months ended October 31, 2018, when compared to the prior year period, primarily due to normal business operations.  
Days Sales Outstanding in accounts receivable were 66 days as of October 31, 2018, compared to 57 days as of October 31, 2017. This increase is primarily due to the timing of cash collections. Our current ratio on October 31, 2018 was 2.8 to 1 and on October 31, 2017 was 2.7 to 1.  
Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities. For this reason, and because we had $82.7 million in cash and investments with no debt as of October 31, 2018, we believe that our sources of liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our presently anticipated requirements during at least the next twelve months for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate needs. However, at some future date we may need to seek additional sources of capital to meet our requirements. If such need arises, we may be required to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing. We do not currently have a bank line of credit. We can provide no assurance that bank lines of credit or other financing will be available on terms acceptable to us. If available, such financing may result in dilution to our shareholders or higher interest expense.  
Table of Contents 
Revenue Recognition. For information with respect to revenue recognition policy, see Notes A and B in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.  
Table of Contents 
 Item 2.  
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds  
None  
