•results of operations;
•liquidity, cash flow and capital expenditures;
•demand for and pricing of our products and services;
•viability and effectiveness of strategic alliances;
•acquisition activities and the effect of completed acquisitions; and
In July 2019, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) provided an update to the World Economic Outlook for 2019. The update noted that, “Global growth remains subdued. Since the April World Economic Outlook (WEO) report, the United States further increased tariffs on certain Chinese imports and China retaliated by raising tariffs on a subset of US imports. Additional escalation was averted following the June G20 summit. Global technology supply chains were threatened by the prospect of US sanctions, Brexit related uncertainty continued, and rising geopolitical tensions roiled energy prices. Against this backdrop, global growth is forecast at 3.2 percent in 2019, picking up to 3.5 percent in 2020 (0.1 percentage point lower than in the April WEO projections for both years). GDP releases so far this year, together with generally softening inflation, point to weaker-than anticipated global activity. Investment and demand for consumer durables have been subdued across advanced and emerging market economies as firms and households continue to hold back on long-term spending. Accordingly, global trade, which is intensive in machinery and consumer durables, remains sluggish. The projected growth pickup in 2020 is precarious, presuming stabilization in currently stressed emerging market and developing economies and progress toward resolving trade policy differences."
For fiscal 2020, we expect the global economy to improve modestly when compared to the prior year. We believe information technology spending will incrementally improve over the long term as increased global competition forces companies to improve 
We believe improved economic conditions may be driving some businesses to focus on achieving more process and efficiency enhancements in their operations and to invest in solutions that improve operating margins, rather than make large infrastructure-type technology purchases. If this trend continues, we believe it may tend to favor solutions such as our supply chain solutions, which are designed to provide a more rapid return on investment and are targeted at some of the largest profit drivers in a customer’s business.
The Company enables enterprises to accelerate their operations from product concept to customer availability. Our four brands - Logility, Demand Solutions, Halo and NGC Software - provide a single platform spanning eight supply chain process areas, including demand optimization, inventory optimization, supply optimization, retail optimization, quality and compliance, product lifecycle management, sourcing management and integrated business planning. Our platform includes advanced analytics and is fueled by supply chain master data, allowing for the automation of critical business processes through the application of artificial intelligence and machine learning algorithms to a variety of internal and external data streams.
Our primary operating units under our SCM segment include Logility, Inc., New Generation Computing, Inc. (“NGC”), Demand Management, Inc. (“DMI”), and Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”). Logility and NGC are wholly-owned subsidiaries of American Software; DMI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Logility; and Halo is a division of Logility. In addition to our core SCM software business, we also offer technology staffing and consulting services through our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Proven Method, Inc., in the IT Consulting segment. The Other segment consists of software and services provided to our legacy enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) customers, as well as corporate overhead and other common expenses.
Our cost of revenue for licenses and subscriptions includes amortization of capitalized computer software development costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, royalties paid to third-party software vendors, and agent commission expenses related to revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI. Costs for maintenance and services include the cost of personnel to conduct implementations and customer support, consulting, other personnel-related expenses, and agent commission expenses related to maintenance revenues generated by the indirect channel, primarily from DMI. We account for the development costs of software intended for sale in accordance with the Software topic of the FASB ASC. We monitor the net realizable value of our capitalized software on a quarterly basis based on an estimate of future product revenues. We currently expect to fully recover the value of the capitalized software asset recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; however, if future product revenues are less than management’s current expectations, we may incur a write-down of capitalized software costs.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
For the three months ended July 31, 2019 compared to July 31, 2018 revenues remained flat attributable primarily to a 41% increase in subscription fees and a 4% increase in license revenues that were partially offset by an 8% decrease in professional fees and other revenues and a 4% decrease in maintenance revenues, when compared to the same period last year. 
Due to intense competition in our industry, we sometimes discount license fees from our published list price. Numerous factors contribute to the amount of the discount provided, such as previous customer purchases, the number of customer sites utilizing the software, the number of modules purchased and the number of users, as well as the overall size of the contract. While all these factors may affect the discount amount of a particular contract, the overall percentage discount has not materially changed in the recent reported fiscal periods.
International revenues represented approximately 22% of total revenues in the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 20% for the same period in the prior year. Our revenues, particularly our international revenues, may fluctuate substantially from period to period, primarily because we derive most of our license fee revenues from a relatively small number of customers in a given period.
License Revenues
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, license fee revenues increased 4% when compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three months ended July 31, 2019, license fee revenues from our SCM segment remained flat when compared to the corresponding period in the prior year due to an increased focus on Logility’s cloud services platform that requires revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years. For the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, our SCM segment constituted approximately 96% and 99% of total license fee revenues, respectively. Our Other segment license fee revenues increased by 255% for the three months ended July 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to additional sales to our existing ERP customers.
The direct sales channel provided approximately 95% of license fee revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2019, compared to approximately 89% in the comparable period last year. For the three months ended July 31, 2019, our margins after commissions on direct sales were approximately 93%, compared to 92% in the comparable period last year. The increase in margins is due to the mix of sales commission rates based on each individual salesperson’s quotas and related achievement. For the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, our margins after commissions on indirect sales were approximately 54% and 50%, respectively. The indirect channel margins for the current quarter increased compared to the same period in the prior year due to the mix of value-added reseller (“VAR”) commission rates. These margin calculations include only commission expense for comparative purposes and do not include other costs of license fees such as amortization of capitalized software.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, subscription fees revenues increased by 41%, entirely due to the increased subscription fees revenues from our SCM segment.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, cloud services ACV increased approximately 54% to $20.3 million compared to $13.2 million in the same period of the prior year due to increased sales of our products on our Cloud Services platform that require revenue to be deferred over the life of the contracted period, which is typically one to three years. ACV is a forward-looking operating measure used by management to better understand cloud services (SaaS and other related cloud services) revenue trends within our business, as it reflects our current estimate of revenue to be generated under existing client contracts in the forward 12-month period.
Professional Services and Other Revenues
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, professional services and other revenues decreased by 8%, primarily due to decreased professional services and other revenues from our IT Consulting segment. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of 30% in professional services and other revenues from our Other segment, due to an increase in project work from existing and new customers, while the SCM segment remained flat. We have observed that there is a tendency for services and other revenues, other than from IT Consulting, to lag changes in license and subscription revenues by one to three quarters, as new licenses and subscriptions in one quarter often involve implementation and consulting services in subsequent quarters, for which we recognize revenues only as we perform those services.
Maintenance Revenues
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, maintenance revenues decreased 4% when compared to the same period in the prior year. Our SCM maintenance revenue decreased 4% and our Other segment decreased 11% for the three months ended July 31, 2019, when compared to the same period last year. The SCM segment accounted for 97% of total maintenance revenues for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and for the same period in the prior year. Typically, our maintenance revenues have had a direct relationship to current and historic license fee revenues, since new licenses are the potential source of new maintenance customers.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, our total gross margin percentages increased when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher margins on license fees, professional fees and other and maintenance revenue. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in our gross margin on subscription fees.
Gross Margin on License Fees
License fee gross margin percentage for the three months ended July 31, 2019 increased to 22% for the three months ended July 31,2019 when compared to (1)% in the same period in the prior year due to lower VAR commission expense and amortization of capitalized software expense when compared to the same period in the prior year. License fee gross margin percentage tends to be directly related to the level of license fee revenues due to the relatively fixed cost of computer software amortization expense, amortization of acquired software and the sales mix between our direct and indirect channels.
Gross Margin on Subscription Fees
Our gross margin percentage on subscription fees revenues decreased from 66% to 52% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2019, respectively, primarily due to an increase in capitalized software amortization expense and hosting expense.
Gross Margin on Professional Services and Other
Our gross margin percentage on professional services and other revenues increased from 21% to 27% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and July 31, 2019, respectively. This increase was primarily due to higher gross margins in our SCM segment servcies of 31% for the three months ended July 31,2019 compared to 19% in the same period in the prior year due to cost containment efforts and improved utilization. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in our IT Consulting segment professional gross margin from 23% to 21% due to the timing of project work. The primary component of cost of services and other revenues is services staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
Gross Margin on Maintenance
Maintenance gross margin percentage increased from 81% for the three months ended July 31, 2018 to 83% for the three months ended July 31, 2019 due to cost containment efforts. The primary cost component is maintenance staffing, which is relatively inelastic in the short term.
Sales and Marketing
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, sales and marketing expenses increased 8% when compared to the same period a year ago, primarily due to higher commissions in the current quarter due to an increase in sales revenue.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, general and administrative expenses increased 15%, when compared to the same period a year ago, primarily due to an increase in variable compensation and to a lesser extent legal fees.
Our SCM segment operating income increased by 26% in the three months ended July 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to an overall increase in revenues and decrease in costs of revenues.
Our IT Consulting segment’s operating income decreased by 51% for the three months ended July 31, 2019 compared to same period in the prior year primarily due to decreased revenues and gross margins.
Our Other segment operating loss increased by 15% for the three months ended July 31, 2019 when compared to the same period in the prior year due to an increase in corporate expenses, partially offset by an increase in revenues.
Other Income
Other income is comprised of net interest and dividend income, rental income, exchange rate gains and losses, and realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments. For the three months ended July 31, 2019, the decrease in other income is mainly due to higher unrealized losses on investments when compared to the same period last year, which was partially offset by lower exchange rate losses of $0.1 million in the current quarter when compared to an exchange rate loss of $0.2 million in the same period last year. We recorded net realized gains of approximately $0.1 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended July 31, 2019 and July 31, 2018, respectively, from our trading securities portfolio.
For the three months ended July 31, 2019, our investments generated an annualized yield of approximately 1.41% compared to approximately 1.49% for the same period in the prior year.
During the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018, we recorded income tax expense of $170,000 and an income tax benefit of $25,000, respectively. The reported amount of income tax expense differs from an expected amount based on statutory rates primarily due to discrete stock compensation benefits of $61,000 and $274,000, respectively, net of normal income tax expense from operations. After adjusting for these discrete tax benefits, our effective tax rate would have been 17.0% in the three months ended July 31, 2019 compared to our effective tax rate of 18.3% in the three months ended July 31, 2018. In addition, research and development and foreign tax credits reduced our effective tax rate by 7.4% in the three months ended July 31, 2019, compared to 5.6% in the three months ended July 31, 2018.
We have historically funded, and continue to fund, our operations and capital expenditures primarily with cash generated from operating activities. The changes in net cash that our operating activities provide generally reflect the changes in net earnings and non-cash operating items plus the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities, such as investment trading securities, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenue. We have no debt obligations or off-balance sheet financing arrangements, and therefore, we used no cash for debt service purposes.
The following table shows information about our cash flows and liquidity positions during the three months ended July 31, 2019 and 2018. You should read this table and the discussion that follows in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows contained in Item 1 in Part I of this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report for fiscal 2019.
The decrease in cash used in investing activities when compared to the same period in the prior year was mainly due to a decrease in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by higher capitalized computer software development costs.
The increase in cash used in financing activities compared to the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in proceeds from exercise of stock options and an increase in dividends paid.
Our total activities used more cash and investments during the three months ended July 31, 2019, when compared to the prior year period, primarily due to normal business operations.
Our business in recent periods has generated substantial positive cash flow from operations, excluding purchases and proceeds of sale of trading securities. For this reason, and because we had $88.0 million in cash and investments with no debt as of July 31, 2019, we believe that our sources of liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to satisfy our presently anticipated requirements during at least the next twelve months for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate needs. However, at some future date we may need to seek additional sources of capital to meet our requirements. If such need arises, we may be required to raise additional funds through equity or debt financing. We do not currently have a bank line of credit. We can provide no assurance that bank lines of credit or other financing will be available on terms acceptable to us. If available, such financing may result in dilution to our shareholders or higher interest expense.
On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors approved a resolution authorizing the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock. We have made and will make these repurchases through open market purchases at prevailing market prices. The timing of any repurchase will depend upon market conditions, the market price of our common stock and management’s assessment of our liquidity and cash flow needs. Under this repurchase plan, through July 31, 2019, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million. As of July 31, 2019, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.
Revenue Recognition. For information with respect to revenue recognition policy, see Note B in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
