Financial Statements.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
 In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-02, Leases.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company has identified the full population of leases.
Although the Company does expect to record right-of-use assets and liabilities on its consolidated balance sheet, it does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The right-of-use assets and liabilities are estimated to be less than 3% of total assets.
The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.
 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
 Effective April 2, 2018, the Company adopted the FASB ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, and is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The adoption of ASU 2014-09, using the modified retrospective approach, had no significant impact on the timing of revenue recognition, our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.
 The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve.
The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet.
This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration.
The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the Prepaid expense and other current assets line item of the balance sheet.
The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods.
As of December 30, 2018, the return asset and refund liability amounts were $1.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by the Company on each such date (or meets certain other criteria as prescribed in the applicable award agreement, and unless accelerated in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreement).
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 primarily related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018).
These PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2018 performance targets were not fully satisfied.
Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
 Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the participant, or upon termination of the participant’s employment without cause or by the participant for good reason, as those terms are defined in the agreement.
 On August 8, 2017, the Compensation Committee approved the grant of an aggregate of up to 56,000 RSUs to several senior executives.
Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date.
On October 23, 2018, the Compensation Committee approved the grant of an additional 2,000 RSUs to a recently promoted senior executive.
These RSUs have terms comparable to the 56,000 previously issued RSUs, but have an earnings period that coincides with the remainder of the earnings period applicable to the initially issued 56,000 RSUs, and reflect other corresponding adjustments.
As of December 30, 2018, 8,000 of these 58,000 RSUs have been canceled due to employee departures, leaving 50,000 of these RSUs outstanding.
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.
 The Company now accounts for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeitures.
To the extent that forfeitures occur, stock-based compensation related to the restricted awards may be different from the Company’s expectations.
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period.
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.
 As of December 30, 2018, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards.
These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately three years.
This replaced our then existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement.
The secured Revolving Credit Facility, as it was initially established, included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans.
Borrowing Availability under the secured Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established was determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves, as those terms were defined in the Credit Agreement.
included financial and other covenants, and pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which included the obligations under the Credit Agreement, were guaranteed by those Loan Parties not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and all proceeds of the foregoing.
The security interests were granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time.
The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.
Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million.
 In addition to expanding the Company’s borrowing limit, the secured Revolving Credit Facility maturity date was extended to October 19, 2021.
The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications.
 Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement initially accrue interest from the applicable borrowing date at an Applicable Rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
The Eurodollar Rate is the rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) LIBOR by (ii) a percentage equal to 1.00 minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
When the Applicable Rate is the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Applicable Margin is 1.50% if Average Availability is greater than or equal to $15 million, and 1.75% otherwise.
On December 30, 2018, the interest rate applicable to borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility was 3.85%.
Under certain circumstances, the Applicable Rate is subject to change at the Lenders’ option from the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Following an Event of Default, in addition to changing the Applicable Rate to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Lenders’ may at their option set the Applicable Margin at 0.50% if the Base Rate applies or 1.75% if the Eurodollar Rate applies, and increase the Applicable Rate by an additional 200 basis points.
The Applicable Rate adjusts on the first Business Day of each calendar month.
The Company is required to pay a monthly Commitment Fee on the average daily unused portion of the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, at a per annum rate equal to 0.25%.
and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
As of December 30, 2018, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $16.9 million and, therefore, the Company had $58.1 million available for borrowing as of December 30, 2018, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet.
As of April 1, 2018, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $10.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $64.2 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of April 1, 2018, again subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
 As of December 30, 2018, the Company had no unrecognized tax benefits.
As of April 1, 2018, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $112,700 ($87,200 net of federal benefit).
The cumulative amount included in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 30, 2018 was $0.
The cumulative amount of interest and penalties included as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet as of April 1, 2018 was $250,500 (net of federal benefit).
 The Company presents the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) on a basic and diluted basis.
Diluted earnings per share are computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued.
from the calculation if they are determined to be anti-dilutive.
There were no anti-dilutive PSUs or RSUs outstanding as of December 30, 2018 or December 24, 2017, respectively.
 Note 7. Business Segments
 The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.
   ·    Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
   ·    Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks.
Products include fixed and mobile broadband equipment, distributed antenna systems (DAS), wireless networking, filtering systems, two-way radios and security and surveillance products.
This product category also includes training classes, technical support and engineering design services.
   ·    Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment.
Retail merchandising displays, promotional programs, customized order fulfillment services and affinity-marketing programs, including private label internet sites, complement our mobile devices and accessory product offering.
For the nine months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017, the aggregate value of the shares withheld totaled $111,100 and $65,400, respectively.
 For the fiscal quarters and nine months ended December 30, 2018 and December 24, 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10.0% of total consolidated revenues.
 For the fiscal quarter ended December 30, 2018, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 14.9% and 9.1% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the fiscal quarter ended December 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 9.2% and 8.9% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
 For the nine months ended December 30, 2018, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 15.4% and 8.3% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the nine months ended December 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 10.4% and 10.7% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
 Item 1A.
 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2018.
