 Item 1. Financial Statements.  
 Note 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation  
 TESSCO Technologies Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (TESSCO, we, or the Company), architects and delivers innovative product and value chain solutions to support wireless systems. The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology. Approximately 98% of the Company’s sales are made to customers in the United States. The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange. Almost all of the Company’s sales are made in United States Dollars.  
 Note 2. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-02, Leases. This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases. The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The Company has identified the full population of leases and does not expect the adoption of the standard to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. The standard will be adopted on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year.  
 In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. This may result in the earlier recognition of allowances for losses. This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019. The company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.  
 In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the 
cash flow statement. Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities. Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses. The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, with early adoption permitted, and will be applied retrospectively. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this new standard, on the first day of the Company’s 2020 fiscal year, will have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 The Company has changed the presentation of its returns reserve. The amount of expected returns are now recognized as a refund liability within the Accrued Expenses line item of the balance sheet. This liability represents the obligation to return customer consideration. The value of the expected goods returned by customers is now recognized as a return asset within the inventory line item of the balance sheet. The return asset value is initially measured at the former carrying amount in inventory, less any expected costs to recover the goods. The Company expects products returned by customers to be in new and salable condition, as required by our standard terms and conditions, and therefore impairment of the return asset is unlikely. Changes to the return liability are recorded as revenue adjustments and changes to the inventory asset are recorded as cost of goods sold. As of September 30, 2018, the return asset and refund liability amounts were $1.6 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.  
 The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 30, 2018 includes $384,800 and $705,300, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. The Company’s selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 24, 2017 included $254,300 and $501,900, respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Stock-based compensation expense is primarily related to our Performance Stock Units (PSUs), Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and Stock Options, granted or outstanding under the Company’s Third Amended and Restated Stock and Incentive Plan (the “1994 Plan”).   
 During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, the Compensation Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Compensation Committee”) approved the grant of PSUs to select key employees, providing them with the opportunity to earn up to 71,000 shares of the Company’s common stock in the aggregate, depending upon whether and to the extent which certain earnings per share targets and other Company and individual performance metrics are met. These not-yet-earned PSUs have a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019), and assuming the performance metrics are met to a sufficient extent, any shares earned at the end of fiscal 2019 will vest 25% and be issued ratably on or about each of May 1 of 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022, provided that the respective employees remain employed by the Company on each such date.   
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2019 primarily related to the fiscal 2018 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2018). These PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2018 performance targets were not fully satisfied. Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.  
 If all PSUs granted thus far in fiscal 2019 are assumed to be earned on account of the applicable performance metrics being fully met, total unrecognized compensation costs on these PSUs plus all earned but unvested PSU’s would be approximately $1.0 million, as of September 30, 2018, and would be expensed through fiscal 2022. To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2019 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.  
 As of September 30, 2018, there was approximately $0.9 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to all outstanding RSUs, assuming all shares are earned. Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.   
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.   
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period. This occurs without regard to subsequent changes in stock price, volatility, or interest rates over time, provided the option remains outstanding.   
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.   
 As of September 30, 2018, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards. These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately three years.   
Loan Parties’ obligations, which included the obligations under the Credit Agreement, were guaranteed by those Loan Parties not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and all proceeds of the foregoing. The security interests were granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time. The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.  
 In addition to expanding the Company’s borrowing limit, the secured Revolving Credit Facility maturity date was extended to October 19, 2021. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement otherwise includes representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants (including restrictions) and other terms generally consistent with those applicable to the facility as existing prior to the execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, but with certain modifications.   
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and other Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by them in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.   
 Borrowings may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as further provided in, and subject to the applicable terms of, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of September 30, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $19.7 million and, therefore, the Company had $55.3 million available for borrowing as of September 30, 2018, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above. The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet. As of April 1, 2018, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $10.8 million and, therefore, the Company had $64.2 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of April 1, 2018.  
 As of September 30, 2018, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $116,200 ($91,800 net of federal benefit). As of April 1, 2018, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $112,700 ($87,200 net of federal benefit).   
 Note 6. Earnings Per Share  
 The Company presents the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) on a basic and diluted basis. Basic EPS is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the reported period. Diluted earnings per share are computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued. Common shares are excluded from the calculation if they are determined to be anti-dilutive. At September 30, 2018, stock options with respect to 574,000 shares of common stock were outstanding, of which 50,000 were anti-dilutive. At September 24, 2017, stock options with respect to 630,000 shares of common stock were outstanding, of which 290,000 were anti-dilutive. There were no anti-dilutive PSUs or RSUs outstanding as of September 30, 2018 or September 24, 2017, respectively.  
 Note 7. Business Segments  
 The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.   
 Note 8. Shares Withheld   
 Note 9. Concentration of Risk  
 For the fiscal quarters and six months ended September 30, 2018 and September 24, 2017, no customer accounted for more than 10.0% of total consolidated revenues.  
 For the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2018, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 17.0% and 7.8% of consolidated revenue, respectively. For the fiscal quarter ended September 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 10.3% and 7.9% of consolidated revenue, respectively.   
 For the six months ended September 30, 2018, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 15.6% and 7.9% of consolidated revenue, respectively. For the six months ended September 24, 2017, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 11.0% and 10.5% of consolidated revenue, respectively.  
 Item 1A. Risk Factors.  
