Financial Statements.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
 In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).
 In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables.
This ASU is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 2019.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements and will adopt the standard on the first day of the Company’s 2021 fiscal year.
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The Company adopted this standard on the first day of the 2020 fiscal year, using a modified retrospective approach.
This standard resulted in the Company recording a right-of-use asset and lease liability for all leases, but otherwise the standard did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Prior periods were not adjusted to reflect this change.
 Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
The new standard changes the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, are now classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, included herein.
No additional awards may be granted under the 1994 Plan, although awards outstanding under the 1994 Plan remain outstanding and governed by its terms.
metrics are met to a sufficient extent, the shares earned at the end of fiscal 2020 on the basis of that performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on or about May 15, 2020 and continuing on the same date in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023, provided that the respective employee remains employed by the Company on each such date.
Pursuant to the typical PSU award agreement, however, performance metrics are deemed met upon the occurrence of a change in control, and shares earned are issued earlier upon the occurrence of a change in control, or death or disability of the employee, or upon termination of the employee’s employment without cause or by the employee for good reason, as those terms are defined in the applicable PSU award agreement.
In connection with his hiring as President and Chief Executive Officer on August 20, 2019, the Compensation Committee, with concurrence of the full Board of Directors, granted an additional PSU to Mr. Mukerjee, providing him with the opportunity to earn up to 6,116 shares of the Company’s common stock.
This PSU was granted on the same terms as the PSUs granted in May 2019, except that this PSU was granted under the 2019 Plan and any shares earned pursuant to it on the basis of fiscal 2020 performance will vest in four equal installments beginning on the first anniversary of the commencement of the employment of Mr. Mukerjee and continue in calendar 2021, 2022 and 2023 on the same date as the other PSUs vest, provided that Mr. Mukerjee remains employed by the Company on each such date.
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2020 primarily related to the fiscal 2019 grant of PSUs, which also had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2019).
The PSUs were cancelled because the applicable fiscal 2019 performance targets were not fully attained.
Per the provisions of the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2020 are not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
 On August 8, 2017, the Compensation Committee, with the concurrence of the full Board of Directors, approved the grant of an aggregate of up to 56,000 RSUs to several senior executives.
Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date.
As of September 29, 2019, 8,000 of these 56,000 RSUs have been canceled due to employee departures, leaving 48,000 of the 56,000 RSUs outstanding.
An additional 2,000 RSU’s with similar terms (but with a shorter earnings period) were awarded in fiscal 2019, and in connection with his hiring as our new President and Chief Executive Officer, the Company issued an additional RSU grant to Mr. Mukerjee under the 2019 Plan for
19,000 shares and with similar terms (a four-year earning period and a denominator of $3.20).
As a result, an aggregate of 69,000 dividend-based RSUs currently remain outstanding.
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by Nasdaq on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.
 The Company accounts for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeitures.
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period.
 The following tables summarize the pertinent information for outstanding options.
 As of September 29, 2019, there was approximately $0.9 million of total unrecognized compensation costs related to these options.
These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately three years.
 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”), which amended and restated the terms of a previously established secured Revolving Credit Facility with the same lenders , and which resulted in, among other modifications, an increase in the Company’s borrowing limit to up to $75 million, from the previous borrowing limit of up to $35 million.
 Borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement initially accrue interest from the applicable borrowing date at an Applicable Rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
The Eurodollar Rate is the rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) LIBOR by (ii) a percentage equal to 1.00 minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
When the Applicable Rate is the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Applicable Margin is 1.50% if Average Availability is greater than or equal to $15 million, and 1.75% otherwise.
On September 29, 2019, the interest rate applicable to borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility was 3.61%.
Under certain circumstances, the Applicable Rate is subject to change at the Lenders’ option from the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Following an Event of Default, in addition to changing the Applicable Rate to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Lenders’ may at their option set the Applicable Margin at 0.50% if the Base Rate applies or 1.75% if the Eurodollar Rate applies, and increase the Applicable Rate by an additional 200 basis points.
The Applicable Rate adjusts on the first Business Day of each calendar month.
The Company is required to pay a monthly Commitment Fee on the average daily unused portion of the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, at a per annum rate equal to 0.25%.
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under a Guaranty and Security Agreement previously delivered by them in connection with the secured Revolving Credit Facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising from time to time under the secured Revolving Credit Facility provided for under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, and as respects certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.
As of September 29, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $35.3 million and, therefore, the Company had $39.7 million available for borrowing as of September 29, 2019, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
As of March 31, 2019, borrowings under the secured Revolving Credit Facility totaled $14.4 million and, therefore, the Company had $60.6 million available on its revolving line of credit facility as of March 31, 2019, again subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
 The Company presents the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) on a basic and diluted basis.
Diluted earnings per share is computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued.
Common shares are excluded from the calculation if they are determined to be anti-dilutive.
At September 30, 2018, stock options with respect to 574,000 shares of common stock were outstanding, of which 50,000 were anti-dilutive.
There were no anti-dilutive PSUs or RSUs outstanding as of September 29, 2019 or September 30, 2018, respectively.
resellers and integrators, which results from the consolidation of our previously identified value-added resellers, government channels and private system operator markets, and reflects implementation over the 2019 fiscal year of an enhanced go-to-market strategy.
This go-to-market strategy and the corresponding consolidation of these customer markets is designed to increase sales opportunities across the consolidated markets, as well as to provide better coverage to customers and to better align territories with supplier partners.
 The retail segment consists of the retail market which includes retailers, independent dealer agents and carriers.
   ·    Base Station Infrastructure - Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
   ·    Network Systems - Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks.
This product category also includes training classes, technical support and engineering design services.
   ·    Installation, Test and Maintenance - Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment.
Retail merchandising displays, promotional programs, customized order fulfillment services and affinity-marketing programs, including private label internet sites, complement our mobile devices and accessory product offering.
 The Company leases certain office spaces and equipment.
Leases with an initial term of twelve months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet.
The Company’s leases include rental payments adjusted for inflation.
The right-of-use lease asset and lease liability are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 The lease for the Company’s office space located at 375 West Padonia Road, Timonium, Maryland, 21093, and which includes approximately 102,164 rentable square feet, had been scheduled to end in December 2020.
In July 2019, the Company entered into an amendment to the lease agreement to extend the lease term to December 15, 2025.
Under the terms of this amendment, the base rental rate during the extended lease term ranges from $200,071 to $220,841 per month.
 For the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019, revenue from the Company’s largest customer accounted for 10.5% of total consolidated revenues.
For the six months ended September 29, 2019 and the fiscal quarter and six months ended September 30, 2018, no customer accounted for more than 10% of total consolidated revenues.
 For the fiscal quarter ended September 29, 2019, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 21.9% of consolidated revenue.
For the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2018, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 17.0% consolidated revenue.
 For the six months ended September 29, 2019, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 21.7% of consolidated revenue.
For the six months ended September 30, 2018, sales of products from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 15.6% of consolidated revenue.
 Item 1A.
 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
