Financial Statements.
The Company provides marketing and sales services, knowledge and supply chain management, product-solution delivery and control systems utilizing extensive internet and information technology.
The Company takes orders in several ways, including phone, fax, online and through electronic data interchange.
 In management’s opinion, the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements of the Company include all adjustments, consisting only of normal, recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position for the interim periods presented.
These statements are presented in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The results of operations presented in the accompanying interim consolidated financial statements are not necessarily representative of operations for an entire year.
For the revenue streams assessed, the Company does not anticipate a material impact in the timing or amount of revenue recognized.
The Company may be required to adjust its accounting for its returns reserve.
Based on this ongoing assessment, the Company intends to adopt the standard on a modified retrospective basis on April 2, 2018, the first day of fiscal 2019.
 In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-02, Leases.
This ASU requires lessees to recognize most leases on their balance sheets related to the rights and obligations created by those leases.
The ASU also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases.
The guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those fiscal years.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this new standard will have on its Consolidated Financial Statements.
 In August 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No.
2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments.
The new standard will change the classification of certain cash payments and receipts within the cash flow statement.
Specifically, payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs, including third-party costs, premiums paid, and other fees paid to lenders that are directly related to the debt prepayment or debt extinguishment, excluding accrued interest, will now be classified as financing activities.
Previously, these payments were classified as operating expenses.
 In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2016-09, Compensation – Stock Compensation.
The Company adopted this provision in the first quarter of fiscal 2018.
The adoption of this provision was applied prospectively.
The impact to the Company's results of operations related to this provision in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 was an increase in the provision for income taxes of $0.04 million, and a 0.4% higher effective tax rate than if the standard had not been adopted.
There was no material impact on the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
 In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-19, “Technical Corrections and Improvements”.
Among other things, the ASU provides clarification on the presentation of the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use.
The Company retrospectively adopted the ASU in the three months ended June 25, 2017 and reclassified the carrying value of internal-use computer software from Property, plant and equipment, net to Intangible assets, net.
The net carrying value of internal-use computer software was $4.2 million and $4.3 million, respectively, as of December 24, 2017 and March 26, 2017.
 The PSUs cancelled during fiscal 2018 primarily related to the fiscal 2017 grant of PSUs, which had a one-year measurement period (fiscal 2017).
The PSUs were cancelled because the minimum applicable fiscal 2017 performance targets were not attained.
Per the 1994 Plan, the shares related to these forfeited and cancelled PSUs were added back to the 1994 Plan and became available for future issuance under the 1994 Plan.
To the extent the maximum number of PSUs granted in fiscal 2018 is not earned, stock-based compensation related to these awards will differ from this amount.
 On August 8, 2017, the Compensation Committee, with the concurrence of the full Board of Directors, awarded an aggregate of up to 56,000 RSUs to several senior executives.
Subject to earlier issuance upon the occurrence of certain events (as described in the applicable award agreement), any earned shares are issued and distributed to the recipient upon the fourth anniversary of the award date.
As of December 24, 2017, 8,000 of these 56,000 RSUs have been canceled due to employee departures, leaving 48,000 of these RSUs outstanding.
Unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a weighted average period of approximately three years.
 PSUs and RSUs are expensed based on the grant date fair value, calculated as the closing price of TESSCO common stock as reported by NASDAQ on the date of grant minus the present value of dividends expected to be paid on the common stock before the award vests, because dividends or dividend-equivalent amounts do not accrue and are not paid on unvested PSUs and RSUs.
 As discussed in Note 2, the Company now accounts for forfeitures as they occur rather than estimate expected forfeitures.
 The value of each option at the date of grant is amortized as compensation expense over the service period.
 The following tables summarize pertinent information for outstanding options.
 As of December 24, 2017, there was approximately $0.8 million of total unrecognized compensation costs, related to these awards.
These unrecognized compensation costs are expected to be recognized ratably over a period of approximately four years.
This replaced the Company’s previously existing $35 million unsecured revolving credit facility with both SunTrust Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, which had no outstanding principal balance at the time of replacement.
The replacement Revolving Credit Facility included terms providing for its maturity after five years, on June 24, 2021, and for a $5.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans.
Borrowing Availability under the replacement Revolving Credit Facility as it was initially established is determined in part in accordance with a Borrowing Base, defined in the Credit Agreement, generally, as 85% of Eligible Receivables minus Reserves.
and acquisitions, sales of assets, payment of dividends, issuance of additional debt and other matters.
 Pursuant to a related Guaranty and Security Agreement by and among the Company, the other Company affiliate borrowers under the Credit Agreement and other subsidiaries of the Company, who are referred to collectively as the Loan Parties, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, the Loan Parties’ obligations, which include the obligations under the Credit Agreement, are guaranteed by those Loan Parties which are not otherwise borrowers, and secured by continuing first priority security interests in the Company’s and the other Loan Parties’ (including both borrowers and guarantors) inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and in all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights and chattel paper, in each case to the extent relating to inventory and accounts, and in all proceeds of the foregoing.
The security interests are granted in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement from time to time.
The obligations secured also include certain other obligations of the Loan Parties to the Lenders and their affiliates arising from time to time, relating to swaps, hedges and cash management and other bank products.
 Effective July 13, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into a First Amendment to Credit Agreement (the “First Amendment”), to amend select terms of the Credit Agreement.
Pursuant to the First Amendment, the term “Availability” as used in the Credit Agreement was amended for a period of time ending no later than October 31, 2017, to allow for the inclusion of an additional sum when calculating Availability for certain limited purposes.
This additional sum equals the lesser of $10 million, and the amount by which the Borrowing Base exceeds $35 million.
This First Amendment did not increase the $35 million Aggregate Revolving Commitment Amount, but allowed the Company greater flexibility under the Credit Agreement for a limited period of time, until October 31, 2017, and was sought by the Company in response to business opportunities identified by the Company.
 On October 19, 2017, the Company and its primary operating subsidiaries, as co-borrowers, and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lender, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a Lender, entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Amended and Restated Credit Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreement for the secured Revolving Credit Facility was amended and restated in order to, among other things, increase the Company’s borrowing limit from up to $35 million to up to $75 million.
for all Eligible Inventory which is aged at least 181 days; minus (B) Reserves.
Upon closing, there was $23.4 million outstanding under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
 Like the secured Revolving Credit Facility as existing prior to execution and delivery of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, borrowings under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement initially accrue interest from the applicable borrowing date at an Applicable Rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
The Eurodollar Rate is the rate per annum obtained by dividing (i) LIBOR by (ii) a percentage equal to 1.00 minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
When the Applicable Rate is the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Applicable Margin is 1.50% if Average Availability is greater than or equal to $15 million, and 1.75% otherwise.
On December 24, 2017, the interest rate applicable to borrowings under the replacement Revolving Credit Facility was 2.86%.
Under certain circumstances, the Applicable Rate is subject to change at the Lenders’ option from the Eurodollar Rate plus the Applicable Margin to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin.
Following an Event of Default, in addition to changing the Applicable Rate to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin, the Lenders’ may at their option set the Applicable Margin at 0.50% if the Base Rate applies or 1.75% if the Eurodollar Rate applies, and increase the Applicable Rate by an additional 200 basis points.
The Applicable Rate adjusts on the first Business Day of each calendar month.
The Company is required to pay a monthly Commitment Fee on the average daily unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility provided for pursuant to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, at a per annum rate equal to 0.25%.
 In connection with the entering into of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, the Company and other Loan Parties executed and delivered to SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, a Reaffirmation Agreement, pursuant to which the obligations of the Loan Parties under the Guaranty and Security Agreement delivered by them in connection with the secured credit facility as previously existing (including the previously existing guaranty by the Loan Parties not otherwise Borrowers and the previously existing grant by the Company and the other Loan Parties of a continuing first priority security interest in inventory, accounts receivable and deposit accounts, and on all documents, instruments, general intangibles, letter of credit rights, and all proceeds) were ratified and confirmed as respects the Obligations arising under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility from time to time.
As of December 24, 2017, borrowings under this Revolving Credit Facility totaled $5.9 million and, therefore, the Company had $69.1 million available for borrowing as of December 24, 2017, subject to the Borrowing Base limitation and compliance with the other applicable terms of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, including the covenants referenced above.
The line of credit has a lockbox arrangement associated with it and therefore the outstanding balance is classified as a current liability on our balance sheet.
As of March 26, 2017, the Company had a zero balance on the Revolving Credit Facility.
 The Company had no assets or liabilities required to be measured at fair value as of December 24, 2017, or as of March 26, 2017.
 The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate their fair values as of December 24, 2017, and March 26, 2017, due to their short-term nature.
 As of December 24, 2017, the Company had a gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $115,400 ($86,500 net of federal benefit).
The cumulative amount included in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 24, 2017 was $323,800 (net of federal benefit).
The cumulative amount of interest and penalties included in the consolidated balance sheet as of March 26, 2017 was $314,300 (net of federal benefit).
 The Company has adopted Accounting Standards Updated No.
2016-09 Topic 718, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (“ASU 2016-09”), effective as of March 27, 2017.
The new guidance requires all of the tax effects related to share-based payments to be recognized through the income statement and is effective for public entities for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016.
The Company will treat the tax effects of share-based compensation awards as discrete items in the interim reporting periods in which the windfalls or shortfalls occurred.
effective or may not result in accounting effects for fiscal year companies until the following fiscal year.
In the Company’s case, the following fiscal year is the fiscal year beginning April 2, 2018.
 Given the significance of the legislation, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
However, the measurement period is deemed to have ended earlier when the registrant has obtained, prepared and analyzed the information necessary to finalize its accounting.
 Amounts recorded where a provisional estimate that has been determined for the nine months ended December 24, 2017 principally relate to the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21 percent effective January 1, 2018, which resulted in the Company reporting an income tax benefit of $0.3 million to re-measure deferred taxes liabilities associated with indefinitely lived intangible assets that will reverse at the new 21 percent rate and to adjust the current fiscal year federal rate on a prorated basis.
 Note 7.
 The Company presents the computation of earnings per share (“EPS”) on a basic and diluted basis.
Diluted earnings per share are computed similarly to basic earnings per share, except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potential additional common shares that were dilutive had been issued.
Common shares are excluded from the calculation if they are determined to be anti-dilutive.
There were no anti-dilutive PSUs or RSUs outstanding as of December 24, 2017 or December 25, 2016, respectively.
 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, in conjunction with the modification of the structure of the internal organization of the Company, as described above, the Company reviewed several customer types, including a large repair center customer, and reclassified them from the private system operators market to either the value-added resellers market or the retail market, based on their purchase history.
The Company has restated prior periods reflected in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to reflect these changes.
 The Company evaluates goodwill at the reporting unit level.
In conjunction with the change in segments, the Company evaluated its goodwill using Level 3 fair value inputs, and no impairment indicators were identified.
   ·    Base station infrastructure products are used to build, repair and upgrade wireless telecommunications systems.
Base station infrastructure service offerings include connector installation, custom jumper assembly, site kitting and logistics integration.
   ·    Network systems products are used to build and upgrade computing and internet networks.
Products include fixed and mobile broadband equipment, distributed antenna systems (DAS), wireless networking, filtering systems, two-way radios and security and surveillance products.
This product category also includes training classes, technical support and engineering design services.
   ·    Installation, test and maintenance products are used to install, tune, maintain and repair wireless communications equipment.
batteries, cases, speakers, mobile amplifiers, power supplies, headsets, mounts, car antennas, music accessories and data and memory cards.
Retail merchandising displays, promotional programs, customized order fulfillment services and affinity-marketing programs, including private label internet sites, complement our mobile devices and accessory product offering.
For the nine months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, the allocated value of the shares withheld totaled $65,400 and $187,600, respectively.
 For the fiscal quarter and nine months ended December 24, 2017 and December 25, 2016, no customer accounted for more than 10.0% of total consolidated revenues.
 For the fiscal quarter ended December 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 9.2% and 8.9% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the fiscal quarter ended December 25, 2016, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest wireless infrastructure supplier and largest mobile device accessories supplier accounted for 10.0% and 9.6% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
 For the nine months ended December 24, 2017, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier and largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 10.7% and 10.4% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
For the nine months ended December 25, 2016, sales of products purchased from the Company’s largest mobile device accessories supplier and largest wireless infrastructure supplier accounted for 11.3% and 10.0% of consolidated revenue, respectively.
 Item 1A.
 There have been no material changes from the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 26, 2017.
