•Received strong banking activity in the U.S. for Windows 10 upgrades, with more than $50 million in orders
•Partnered with U.S. Bank to showcase Essence, Diebold Nixdorf’s streamlined self-service touchpoint solution at ‘Super Bowl Live’ in Minneapolis
The Company provides Connected Commerce solutions which enable millions of transactions each day.
The Company's approximately 23,000 employees service our customer's integrated solutions and design and deliver convenient, "always on" and highly secure solutions that bridge the physical and the digital worlds of transactions.
Customers of the Company include nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers.
Commensurate with its strategy, the Company is executing a multi-year integration and transformation program which aligns employee activities with the Company's goal of realizing $240 of cost reduction by the year 2020.
In May 2018, the Company announced its plans to build upon the achievements of its integration and transformation program while improving Company profitability and cash flow through relentless focus on our customers, operational excellence and forming a unified culture.
As a result, the Company will be implementing a streamlined operating model with clearer and more consistent spans of control.
The Company anticipates the realignment of its operating model to Banking and Retail, which are directly aligned with customer interests.
To drive towards a singular Diebold Nixdorf culture, the Company will align around a few core characteristics, which reinforce the new priorities.
Collectively, these activities aim to create a more efficient organization with a leaner cost structure that will act quickly in the best interests of the Company's customers.
The Company is at the early stages of defining its roadmap to optimize and support the complete customer lifecycle - identifying an opportunity, contracting, delivering and collecting.
In order to achieve these efficiencies, the Company has and will continue to invest to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems, streamline legal entities and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these activities, the Company expects to deliver greater innovation for customers, career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhanced value for shareholders.
These offerings enable customers to meet the growing demand for transaction availability at ATMs, POS, self-checkout systems (SCO) and other distributed assets in a cost-effective manner.
The global service supply chain optimizes the process for obtaining replacement parts, making repairs, and implementing new features and functionalities.
It is a new breed of as-a-service offering, designed to power the business operations of financial institutions, credit unions and retailers.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel, bank branch and retail store networks.
Managed services is the integrator of our solutions by bringing together services, software and systems into a long-term, outcome-based solution.
Our integrated business solutions include store lifecycle management, self-service fleet management, branch lifecycle management, ATM as-a-service and managed mobility services.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
These services mitigate customer risks by relying on proven monitoring and reporting processes, secure tools and partnerships with larger cash-in-transit companies.
In October 2017, the Company introduced Vynamic, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking and retail marketplace.
This offering establishes the evolutionary path for the Company's current software offerings including Vista, Commander, Xpression, PCE, Procash and TP.net.
The Vynamic suite's open API architecture is built to eliminate the traditional focus on internal silos and enable tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions, retailers and payment providers.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
Through collaboration with customers, engineering excellence and an efficient supply chain, the Company delivers industry-leading customer touchpoints to financial institutions, retailers and other customers.
These systems enable highly secure physical and digital transactions around the world.
The Company integrates component technologies according to customer specifications in order to optimize the total cost of ownership and maximize transaction availability while creating a positive impression on customers.
For retail customers, the checkout portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS systems that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers.
Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems.
The BEETLE iSCAN EASY eXpress, hybrid products, can alternate from attended operation to self-checkout with the press of a button as traffic conditions warrant.
Leveraging the broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to select the combination of services, software and systems that drives the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
•Realization of cost reductions and synergies, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Systems gross margin in the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased primarily as a result of higher purchase accounting adjustments in the prior year of $14.5 and the current year benefit from Brazil indirect tax accrual reversal of $3.7.
Deferred Revenue Adjustments included a $5.2 prior year reduction of revenue and $9.3 higher asset amortization.
These decreases were partially offset by an unfavorable currency impact of $21.2.
Non-routine costs in selling and administrative expense of $38.5 and $49.1 were included in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $1.3 and $8.4 in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Research, development and engineering expense in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was flat including an unfavorable currency impact of $4.0.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, the gain on sale of assets was primarily related to the sale of a building in North America of $4.5 and the liquidation of the Barbados operating entity of $3.3.
Operating expense as a percent of net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was 24.6 percent compared with 26.4 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2017.
The decrease in interest income in the three months ended March 31, 2018, compared with the same period in 2017, was the result of lower average balances and reduced current period rates of short-term investments in Brazil.
Interest expense was lower in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same prior-year period due to the favorable impact of refinancing the debt related to the Acquisition.
Net loss was $63.3 and $52.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The effective tax rate on the net loss was (44.2) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The effective tax rate on the net loss was 30.2 percent for the three months ended 2017.
Companies are required to apply their estimated annual tax rate on a year-to-date basis in each interim period.
Companies should not apply the estimated annual tax rate to interim financial results if the estimated annual tax rate is not reliably predictable.
As of March, 31, 2017, the Company was not able to reasonably estimate the annual effective tax rate for the year ending December 31, 2017, because small fluctuations in the Company's earnings before taxes could have resulted in a material change in the estimated annual tax rate.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily a result of the jurisdictional income (loss) mix and varying statutory rates in the Company's global footprint.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, services net sales increased $19.0 or 3.3 percent and included a net favorable currency impact of $39.9 and Deferred Revenue Adjustments of $5.2.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, software net sales increased $9.1 or 8.2 percent including a net favorable currency impact of $10.2.
This was partially offset by higher banking project volume in the Americas.
Segment operating profit increased $2.1 in the three months ended March 31, 2018 due primarily to lower research, development and engineering expenses.
In the three months ended March 31, 2018, systems net sales decreased $66.7 or 15.9 percent, including a net favorable currency impact of $38.5 and Deferred Revenue Adjustments of $5.2.
Excluding currency and Deferred Revenue Adjustments, net sales decreased $110.4 from lower combined systems solutions across the Company.
Additionally, AP was adversely impacted by lower volume as previously mentioned in the geographic regions section.
from higher research, development and engineering expenses associated with new product development and higher associate related cost.
Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.
Net cash used by operating activities was $142.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase in use of $76.0 from $66.3 for the same period in 2017.
convert to cash within the year.
Accounts payable cash use improved primarily related to reduced spending in EMEA and the Americas.
The most significant changes in adjustments to net income includes increased depreciation and amortization expense and additional share-based compensation.
Depreciation and amortization expense increased $8.5 to $67.1 during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to $58.6 during the same period in 2017 primarily due to incremental intangible assets amortization expense related to the finalization of purchase accounting.
Share-based compensation increased $6.9 to $13.7 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to a change in non-substantive vesting terms of certain awards and an increased number of unvested awards granted.
Adjustments to net income also includes (gain) loss on sale of assets, net, which consists primarily of the gains from the sale of a building in North America.
Net cash provided by investing activities was $39.1 and a use of $29.0 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The maturities and purchases of investments primarily relate to short-term investment activity in Brazil.
The proceeds from the sale of assets primarily include cash from the sale of a building in North America.
Net cash used by financing activities was $91.4 and $72.5 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, an increase of $18.9.
The change was primarily due to an additional $35.8 in debt repayments, net of borrowings primarily related to payment of the Revolving Facility and lower cash distributions of $15.2 to noncontrolling interests primarily related to Diebold Nixdorf AG which was paid in March 2017.
Refer to note 11 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for details of the Company's cash flows related to debt borrowings and repayments.
Debt As of March 31, 2018, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $213.2.
The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding borrowings on the short-term uncommitted lines of credit as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 9.16 percent and 9.17 percent, respectively.
Short-term uncommitted lines mature in less than one year.
The amount available under the short-term uncommitted lines at March 31, 2018 was $193.9.
The amount available under the Revolving Facility as of March 31, 2018 was $520.0.
The Company has $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2024 Senior Notes which are and will be guaranteed by certain of the Company’s existing and future domestic subsidiaries and expire in 2024.
On May 9, 2017, the Company entered into the Incremental Agreement which reduced the initial Term Loan B Facility of a $1,000.0 U.S. dollar-denominated tranche to $475.0.
The reduction was funded using the $250.0 proceeds drawn from the Delayed Draw Term Loan A Facility, a replacement of $70.0 with Term Loan B Facility - Euro and previous principal payments.
The debt facilities under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries that are borrowers or guarantors under the Credit Agreement, subject to certain exceptions and permitted liens.
The Company's financing agreements contain various financial covenants, including net debt to capitalization, net debt to EBITDA and net interest coverage ratio.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements.
Dividends The Company paid dividends of $7.7 and $7.6 in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Quarterly dividends were $0.10 per share for the both three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs.
Contractual Obligations In the first three months ended of 2017, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price.
At March 31, 2018, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $3.5 for materials through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
The DPLTA offers the Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders, at their election, (i) the ability to put their Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares to Diebold KGaA in exchange for cash compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share or (ii) to remain Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders and receive a recurring compensation in cash of €3.13 (€2.82 net under the current taxation regime) per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share for each full fiscal year of Diebold Nixdorf AG.
The ultimate timing and amount of any future cash payments related to the DPLTA are uncertain.
Except for the items noted above, all contractual cash obligations with initial and remaining terms in excess of one year and contingent liabilities remained generally unchanged at March 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017.
The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.
If the Company is not able to make payment, the suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank.
Refer to note 9 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details of guarantees.
The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables.
•the effect of legislative and regulatory actions in the U.S. and internationally and the Company’s ability to comply with government regulations;
•the Company's ability to achieve benefits from its cost-reduction initiatives and other strategic initiatives, including its planned restructuring actions, as well as as its business process outsourcing initiative.
