The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $175 is anticipated to be realized during 2019.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments — Banking and Retail.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers its clients the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions.
The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
For banking clients, services represents the largest operational component of the Company.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect ServicesSM was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
From a product perspective, the banking portfolio consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions.
The Company assists financial institutions to increase the functionality, availability and security within their ATM fleet.
These holistic, digitally-connected solutions are built upon an integrated software and services model and provided a modern and personalized experience for consumers, while delivering maximum efficiency and reliability for financial institutions.
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and channel integration.
applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels.
The Company's DN Vynamic software is the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
In addition, DN Vynamic suite's open application program interface (API) architecture is built to simplify operations by eliminating the traditional focus on internal silos and enabling tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers.
In addition, with a shared analytic and transaction engine, the DN Vynamic platform can generate new insights to enhance operations across any channel — putting consumer preferences, not the technology, at the heart of the experience.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail solutions, software and services improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers.
•Realization of cost reductions, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Services gross margin increased 5.1 percent and 3.5 percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
Both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $2.8 and $0.4, respectively, and lower non-routine charges of $0.8 and $2.4, respectively.
Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, services gross margin increased 5.5 percent and 3.6 percent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, as services margin increased in the Eurasia banking segment related to the favorable impact of the services modernization initiatives and favorable mix of higher margin installation activity.
Product gross margin increased 4.2 percent and 3.9 percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
Both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $3.8 and $3.9, respectively.
Both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by lower non-routine charges of $5.7 and $19.0, respectively, primarily related to lower purchase accounting amortization and gain on a product inventory provision, partially offset by the reversal of a Brazil indirect tax accrual in the first quarter of 2018.
Excluding the impact of restructuring and non-routine charges, products gross margin increased 2.0 percent and 2.1 percent in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
The increase was primarily due to higher volume and a more favorable solution mix in Brazil and Canada along with higher margin Windows 10 upgrades in parts of Europe.
Additionally, product gross margin improved from the Company's focus on higher margin product mix in Eurasia and Latin America as well as improved supply chain management and lower expedited freight costs in the Americas.
Selling and administrative expense increased in both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 by $1.9 and $4.5, respectively.
Excluding lower incremental restructuring of $22.2 and lower non-routine charges of $0.8, the three months ended September 30, 2019 expense increase $24.2.
restructuring of $19.6 and higher non-routine charges of $16.4, the expense increased $7.0.
The increase in selling and administrative expense for both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 is primarily attributable to an increase in annual incentive plan cost and an unfavorable impact of the mark-to-market adjustment of the legacy Wincor Nixdorf stock option program partially offset by the cost reduction initiatives tied to the DN Now program.
Non-routine cost in selling and administrative expense was $34.5 and $126.3 in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, a decrease of $0.8 and and an increase of $16.4, respectively, compared to the prior-year periods.
The nine months ended September 30, 2019 consisted of increased DN Now transformation expense, a one-time non-cash item in Brazil and $5.6 related to the German real estate tax from the squeeze out in the first quarter of 2019.
Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $6.4 and $13.4 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, or $22.2 and $19.6, respectively, lower than the prior-year periods, related to the workforce alignment under the DN Now plan.
Research, development and engineering expense in the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased $0.2 including a net favorable currency impact of $0.9, primarily related to the euro.
In the nine months ended September 30, 2019, research, development and engineering expense decreased $9.1 including a net favorable currency impact of $4.7.
In the three months ended September 30, 2019, the gain on sale of assets primarily relates to the Kony transaction.
The nine months ended September 30, 2019 included the loss of the Venezuela business and losses from the divestiture and liquidation of non-core businesses in Eurasia.
The gain of $6.8 in the prior-year period was primarily related to the sale of a building in North America and the liquidation of the Barbados operating entity.
Operating expense as a percent of net sales in the three months ended September 30, 2019 decreased 11.8 percent to 23.0 percent compared to the same period in 2018 and decreased 6.1 percent to 24.3 percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018.
The decreases were due primarily from the impairment charges in 2018.
The operating profit increased in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same periods in 2018.
Interest income was relatively flat for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Interest expense increased $7.3 and $53.7 in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same prior-year periods due to the incurrence of the additional $650.0 of Term Loan A-1 Facility debt with higher incremental interest rates and related fee amortization.
Miscellaneous net, decreased $0.5 and $1.5 in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, impacted by lower costs associated with the company owned life insurance.
The loss before taxes and net loss decreased primarily due to the reasons described above.
The effective tax rate on the loss from continuing operations was (17.2) percent for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and (50.8) percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2019.
In addition, during the first quarter the Company collapsed its Barbados structure to meet the covenant requirements under its credit agreement, which resulted in additional discrete tax expense of $48.4 inclusive of the offsetting valuation allowance release relating to the Company’s nondeductible interest expense that was carried forward from December 31, 2018.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company has not completed the 2018 U.S. federal tax return filing.
Both increases to U.S. federal tax expense have been reported as discrete items for the period ended September 30, 2019.
The effective tax rate on the loss before taxes was (22.3) percent for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and (8.5) percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The expense on the loss for the three months ended and nine months ended was primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge, the impacts of the Tax Act and the higher interest expense burden resulting from the debt restructuring.
More specifically, the expense on the loss reflects refinement of the transition tax, the impacts related to GILTI and the business interest deduction limitation which, as a result of the Company’s debt restructuring activities during the quarter, required a full valuation allowance on the current year nondeductible business interest expense.
In addition, the benefit on the losses for the nine months is reduced by the goodwill impairment charge, which for tax purposes is primarily nondeductible, of $134.4 and $83.1 incurred in the third and second quarter, respectively.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019, Eurasia Banking net sales decreased $29.1, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $14.0, related primarily to the euro, and divestitures of $7.9.
Partially offsetting the services decrease, higher product revenue from increased volume in Germany, the Middle East and South Africa as a result of Windows 10 upgrades and other product enhancements.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, Eurasia Banking net sales decreased $88.9, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $71.6 related primarily to the euro and divestitures of $18.2.
Segment operating profit decreased $2.6 in the three months ended September 30, 2019 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $2.2.
Excluding the impact of currency, operating profit decreased $0.4 for the three months September 30, 2019 related to lower project volume.
Segment operating profit increased $32.2 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $9.1, primarily due to the euro.
The favorable services margin was primarily attributable to the services modernization program which benefited numerous countries in Europe and Asia, while products margin also benefited from DN Now initiatives, higher volume as well as favorable country and product mix.
Segment operating profit margin remained flat for the three months.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019, Americas Banking net sales increased $21.2, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $0.4 related to the Canada dollar and Brazil real.
Excluding currency and the impact of a small divestiture, net sales increased $22.4 primarily due to increased product volume and related service installation revenue from unit replacements from Windows 10 upgrades in Brazil, Mexico and Canada slightly offset by lower maintenance revenue in the U.S. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, Americas Banking net sales increased $99.5, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $9.5 related to the Brazil real.
Excluding currency and a small divestiture, net sales increased $112.0 driven primarily by product sales in Canada, Brazil, Mexico and the U.S regional customers related to unit replacements from Windows 10 upgrades.
Partially offsetting the increases, services revenue declined from lower maintenance contract volume and billed work activity in the U.S.
Segment operating profit increased $27.2 and $76.5 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, mostly from DN Now initiatives favorably impacting both cost of sales and operating expense.
Gross profit was favorably impacted by current large product refresh projects in Canada and favorable solution mix in the U.S., Brazil and Latin America.
Additionally, the Company made improvements to supply chain management resulting in lower expedited freight costs.
For the three months ended September 30, 2019, Retail net sales decreased $32.3, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $11.8 mostly related to the euro and divestitures of $4.3.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2019, Retail net sales decreased $42.3, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $51.4 mostly related to the euro and divestitures of $14.1.
Segment operating profit decreased $4.9 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $0.8.
Segment operating profit increased $3.1 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $3.7.
Segment operating profit margin decreased 1.1 percent for the three months ended September 30, 2019 primarily related to lower product volume.
Segment operating profit increased 0.6 percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 primarily from lower costs and expenses tied to DN Now initiatives as well as higher volume and favorable service mix related to maintenance and support activities in Europe.
Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.
•Cash flows from operating activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 were impacted by a $216.5 decrease in net loss inclusive of the 2018 non-cash goodwill impairment of $217.5.
Refer to the Results of Operations discussed above for further discussion of the Company's net loss.
Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $15.3 to $171.3 during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $186.6 during the same period in 2018 primarily due to a reduction in capital spend.
Share-based compensation decreased $7.8 to $19.4 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in shares awarded in 2019.
The maturities and purchases of investments primarily relate to short-term investment activity in Brazil.
The $79.9 change was primarily due to the monetization of the Company's investment in the company owned life insurance plans in the third quarter of 2018 and a reduction in utilization of short-term investments in Brazil for cash needs as well as a reduction in the Company's capital spend.
Net cash used by financing activities was $184.9 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $196.9 for the nine months ended 2018, an increase in use of $381.8.
The change was primarily related to the Term Loan A-1 Facility proceeds in August 2018 partially offset by the redemption of shares and cash compensation to Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders of $98.1 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 compared to $337.8 in the prior-year period.
Additionally, there was a decrease in net borrowings (repayments) under the Company's revolving facility as a result of favorable operating cash flow in the nine-month period ending September 30, 2019 compared to the prior year.
The Company paid cash for interest related to its debt of $130.5 and $66.8 in the nine months ended September 2019 and 2018, respectively.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements.
Refer to note 17 for additional information regarding the Company's hedging and derivative instruments.
In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs.
As a result, there was no dividend for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
Contractual Obligations In the first half of 2019, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price.
At September 30, 2019, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.1 for materials through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
Except for the items noted above, all contractual cash obligations with initial and remaining terms in excess of one year and contingent liabilities remained generally unchanged at September 30, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the condensed consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.
If the Company is not able to make payment, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank.
The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables.
The Company records these sales by removing finance receivables from the condensed consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
These estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and judgment.
Previously, U.S. GAAP only required balance sheet recognition for leases classified as capital leases.
The Company is not obligated to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
•the effect of legislative and regulatory actions in the U.S. and internationally;
•the Company's ability to refinance its debt when necessary or desirable.
Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
