During the third quarter of 2018, the Company identified an error in prior periods presented for repairable service parts inventory balances.
This correction was recorded within the Company's operations in the Americas Banking reporting segment.
As a result of applying the correction retrospectively, previously reported service cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 increased by $1.0 and $3.0, respectively, and previously reported net income and basic and diluted earnings per share decreased by $0.6 and $0.01 and $1.9 and $0.02, respectively.
The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation.
The Company included finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The Company reclassified $8.0 from other current assets to restricted cash as of December 31, 2017 in the condensed consolidated balance sheets and was included in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash as of September 30, 2017 in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.
Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer.
The Company's payment terms vary depending on the individual contracts and are generally fixed fee.
In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables and other current assets.
Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales.
The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
For additional information on product warranty refer to note 9.
The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations.
Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer.
The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main industry segments that generate the Company's revenue.
For more detailed information about reportable operating segments, see note 20.
The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring and rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit.
First and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of the end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing.
The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes.
The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others.
The Company's hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals, kiosks, and other self-service devices.
The Company provides its banking customers front-end applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
For its retail customers, the Company provides a comprehensive, modular solution capable of enabling the most advanced omnichannel retail use cases.
The Company's platform software is installed within bank and retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics.
The Company’s software solution includes its professional services team, who provides systems integration, customization, consulting and project management.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its customers to help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives.
Software licenses and professional services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
The Company considered ASC 606-10-32-34(c)(2), which provides the criteria that "the entity has not yet established a price for that good or service, and the good or service has not previously been sold on a standalone basis (that is, the selling price is uncertain)."
Since the Company generally does not sell its software on a stand-alone basis there is limited history to accurately establish a stand-alone selling price.
The Company does not have an established standalone selling price for its software.
Although the services are capable of being distinct, they are not distinct within the context of the contract.
The Company concluded this fully integrated commercial solution is inseparable since its customers generally only benefit from the combined output, which includes both the intellectual property and the professional services.
The percentage of the Company's consolidated net sales recognized from integration and customization of software represented approximately one percent for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Revenue from professional services are recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed or when the Company’s performance creates an asset with no alternative use to the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Generally revenue will be recognized using an input measure, typically costs incurred.
Products for banking customers consist of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation tools and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions.
The retail product portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS and self-checkout (SCO) terminals that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers.
Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems.
Also in the portfolio, the Company provides self-checkout terminals and ordering kiosks which facilitate an efficient and user-friendly purchasing experience.
The Company’s hybrid product line can alternate from an attended operator to self-checkout with the press of a button as traffic conditions warrant throughout the business day.
For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual services separately if they are distinct.
The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services or distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices.
The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the products or services.
Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Company’s performance as the services are performed.
In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized at a point in time as transfer of control occurs.
Product revenue is recognized at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the product, which could be upon delivery or upon completion of installation services, depending on contract terms.
The observed prices are highly variable due to the varying levels of customization of software solutions that help define optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives.
Due to the nature and level of customization that is included in the Company's software and service solutions, there is no expected cost plus margin approach available for the software component of the bundled packages.
The Company allocates price between products and software net sales when hardware is sold.
The Company generally allocates revenue using the residual method for software included in hardware sales.
The Company evaluates on a contract by contract basis software license sales that are standalone and software license sales that are accounted for under the residual method, but does not aggregate such sales.
Software net sales using the residual approach represented approximately two percent of the Company's total consolidated net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
Contract assets are minimal for the periods presented.
The amount of revenue recognized in 2018 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to the changes in the estimate of variable consideration and contract modifications was de minimis.
There have been $9.7 and $11.5 during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and $20.6 and $26.3 during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, of impairment losses recognized as bad debt related to receivables or contract assets arising from the Company's contracts with customers.
As of January 1, 2018, the Company had $437.5 of unrecognized deferred revenue constituting the remaining performance obligations that are either unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied).
In 2018, the Company recognized revenue of $241.4 related to the Company's deferred revenue balance at January 1, 2018.
Contract assets of the Company primarily relate to the Company's rights to consideration for goods shipped and services provided but not contractually billable at the reporting date.
The contract assets are reclassified into the receivables balance when the rights to receive payment become unconditional.
Contract liabilities are recorded for any services billed to customers and not yet recognizable if the contract period has commenced or for the amount collected from customers in advance of the contract period commencing.
The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Once the variable consideration is identified, the Company estimates the amount of the variable consideration to include in the transaction price by using one of two methods, expected value (probability weighted methodology) or most likely amount (when there are only two possible outcomes).
The Company chooses the method expected to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled and applies the method consistently to similar contracts.
Generally, the Company applies the expected value method when assessing variable consideration including returns and refunds.
The Company also applies the ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient in paragraph 606-10-55-18 related to performance obligations satisfied over time, which permits the Company to recognize revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice the customer if that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company’s performance completed to date.
Service revenues that are recognized ratably are primarily contracts that include first and second line maintenance.
Service revenues that are recognized using input measures include primarily preventative maintenance.
The ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient relates to the on-demand service revenue which is generally not under contract.
As of September 30, 2018, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $2,900.
The Company expects to recognize revenue on the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months.
The Company applies the practical expedient in paragraph 606-10-50-14 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less.
The Company also applies the ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient in paragraph 606-10-55-18 related to performance obligations satisfied over time which permits the Company to recognize revenue in the amount to which it has a right to invoice the customer if that amount corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Company’s performance completed to date.
Service revenues that are recognized ratably are primarily contracts that include first and second line maintenance.
Service revenues that are recognized using input measures include primarily preventative maintenance.
The ‘as invoiced’ practical expedient relates to the on-demand service revenue, which is generally not under contract.
The Company has minimal cost to obtain or fulfill contracts for customers for the periods presented.
Except for the changes below, the Company has consistently applied the accounting policies to all periods presented in these condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company adopted Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, with a date of initial application of January 1, 2018.
As a result, the Company has changed its accounting policy for revenue recognition as detailed below.
Therefore, the comparative information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported under Topic 605.
The Company applied the practical expedient related to assessment of contract modifications, whereby the Company is essentially allowed to use hindsight when assessing the effect of a modification and accounting for the modified contract as if it existed from the beginning of the original contract.
As professional services can be highly customized for each customer, there is no alternative use for the services.
When there is an enforceable right to payment for service completed combined with no alternative use of the services, the services meet criteria for over time revenue recognition.
Revenue is recognized as the services are provided and as the customer benefits from the service.
Revenue is recognized progressively based on the costs incurred method.
When the professional services are not highly customized as in basic software installation services, customers do not take control of the services until they are completed.
Therefore, the Company continues to recognize revenue for such contracts when the services are completed and customers formally accept them.
In certain circumstances, a contract with a customer that contains a software arrangement may include provisions for customer acceptance.
In these cases, when or as the performance obligation is satisfied, the Company recognizes revenue and records a contract asset until customer acceptance is received.
Once customer acceptance is received, the contract asset is reclassified to accounts receivable.
In situations where the performance obligation has not been met and the Company has not received customer acceptance, no revenue is recognized.
Customer acceptance provisions by their nature require the customer to approve that the Company satisfied its performance obligation and are generally standard throughout our contracts with customers.
The Company also would only recognize revenue prior to customer acceptance only if there were no remaining inputs related to performance obligation.
These instances are currently immaterial.
For certain contracts that contain customer acceptance clauses, such as customized software arrangements, the revenue is recognized pursuant to ASC 606-25 25-27(c) since the Company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
The impact to net sales and cost of sales would have been decreases of $5.2 and $6.5, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and $19.0 and $15.1, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The impact after tax was $0.9 and $(2.7) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, and was primarily a result of timing of deferred revenue related to products and software for certain amounts being recognized that would have previously been deferred, and certain amounts being deferred that would have previously been recognized.
Diluted earnings (loss) per share includes the dilutive effect of potential common shares outstanding.
Under the two-class method of computing earnings (loss) per share, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive non-forfeitable dividends are considered participating securities.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Accordingly, the treasury stock method is disclosed below.
In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs.
Share-based compensation is primarily recognized as a component of selling and administrative expense.
Total share-based compensation expense was $6.9 and $8.1 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and was $27.2 and $23.1 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
Each performance share earned entitles the holder to one common share of the Company.
The Company's performance shares include performance objectives that are assessed after a three-year period as well as performance objectives that are assessed annually over a three-year period.
As of September 30, 2018, there were 0.1 non-employee director deferred shares vested and outstanding.
On April 25, 2018, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the 2017 Plan, which provide for an additional 1.2 common shares available for award.
The 2017 Plan is expected to attract and retain directors, officers and employees of the Company by providing incentives and rewards for performance.
This increase in the provisional estimate has been included as a discrete item in the interim period ended September 30, 2018.
The Company will continue to refine the provision estimate over the one-year measurement period ending December 31, 2018 which will include the period in which the Company filed its U.S.
The effective tax rate on the loss before taxes was (26.5) percent for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and (9.3) percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
In addition, the benefit on the losses for the nine months is reduced by the goodwill impairment charge, which for tax purposes is primarily nondeductible, of $109.3 and $90.0 incurred in the third and second quarter, respectively.
The effective tax rate on the loss before taxes was 3.0 percent for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 36.2 percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2017.
The tax for the three months ended September 30, 2017 reflects an unfavorable adjustment relating to year-to-date changes in the Company’s valuation allowance as well as higher than anticipated losses incurred in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period.
As a result of applying the correction of repairable service parts inventory retrospectively, a decrease in the inventory balance of $8.1 was reflected in the December 31, 2017 service parts balance previously reported.
The Company’s investments, primarily in Brazil, consist of certificates of deposit that are classified as available-for-sale and stated at fair value based upon quoted market prices.
Realized gains and losses are recognized in investment income and are determined using the specific identification method.
There were no realized gains from the sale of securities or proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
In May 2017, the Company announced a strategic partnership with Kony, a leading enterprise mobility and application company, to offer white label mobile application solutions for financial institutions and retailers.
Securities and other investments also includes a cash surrender value of insurance contracts of $8.3 and $79.8 as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
In addition, it includes an interest rate swap asset carrying value of $8.8 and $7.6 as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, which also represents fair value (refer to note 18).
The Company has finance lease receivables of $14.9 and $14.4 in other assets as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
There were no significant changes in provision for credit losses, recoveries and write-offs during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
In both the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, the Company sold finance receivables of $4.5 in Brazil.
As of September 30, 2017, finance leases and notes receivable individually evaluated for impairment were $32.4 and $21.0, respectively.
The Company records interest income and any fees or costs related to financing receivables using the effective interest method over the term of the lease or loan.
Credit quality is reviewed at inception and is re-evaluated as needed based on customer-specific circumstances.
Receivable balances 60 days to 89 days past due are reviewed and may be placed on nonaccrual status based on customer-specific circumstances.
Receivable balances are placed on nonaccrual status upon reaching greater than 89 days past due.
Upon receipt of payment on nonaccrual financing receivables, interest income is recognized and accrual of interest is resumed once the account has been made current or the specific circumstances have been resolved.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the recorded investment in past due financing receivables on nonaccrual status was $0.4 and $0.6, respectively, and there were no recorded investments in finance receivables past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest.
The recorded investment in impaired notes receivable was $4.1 as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 and was fully reserved and as of September 30, 2018 are all greater than 89 days past due.
The Company identified four reporting units, which are Eurasia Banking, Americas Banking, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Retail and Rest of World Retail.
Management determined that the Americas Banking reporting unit had excess fair value of $168.4 or 25.9 percent cushion when compared to its carrying amount.
As a result of certain impairment triggering events, the Company performed an impairment test of goodwill for its four reporting units during the third quarter of 2018.
Based on the results of the impairment testing, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment loss of $109.3 related to the Eurasia Banking, EMEA Retail and Rest of World Retail reporting units during the third quarter of 2018.
During the second quarter of 2018, the Company performed an impairment test of goodwill for all of its line of businesses (LoB) reporting units due to the change in its reportable operating segments.
The Company recognized a non-cash goodwill impairment loss of $199.3 during the nine months ended 2018.
In 2017, the Company recorded impairments totaling $3.1 related to information technology (IT) transformation and integration activities.
The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit requires significant estimates and assumptions, including significant unobservable inputs.
Amortization expense on capitalized software of $8.8 and $8.6 was included in service and software cost of sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
Amortization expense on capitalized software of $25.6 and $27.9 was included in service and software cost of sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company's total amortization expense, including deferred financing costs, was $38.2 and $42.7 the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The Company's total amortization expense, including deferred financing costs, was $114.8 and $121.6 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
In 2018, the Company acquired the remaining portion of the noncontrolling interest in its China operations for $5.8 for which no goodwill was recorded.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions for suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.
If the Company is not able to make payments or fulfill contractual obligations, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
The decrease in the liability was primarily due to warranties expiring in Brazil.
The plan is anticipating savings of approximately $130 from the restructuring actions related to the new customer centric operating model with clear role charters and a global workforce aligned with market demand.
Additional near term activities include divesting of non-core businesses, initiating a services modernization plan and investing in solutions.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $38.3 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to DN Now.
The DN2020 plan focused on the utilization of cost efficiencies and synergy opportunities that result from the transformational acquisition of Wincor Nixdorf AG (Diebold Nixdorf AG), which aligned employee activities with the Company's goal of delivering cost reductions of approximately $240 by the year 2020.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $17.4 for the three months ended September 30, 2017, and $6.0 and $44.7 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively, related to DN2020.
As of June 30, 2018, the Company suspended this plan and does not anticipate additional DN2020 restructuring costs.
At the beginning of the 2015, Diebold Nixdorf AG initiated the Delta Program related to restructuring and realignment.
There were no charges during the periods presented.
As of the date of the acquisition of Diebold Nixdorf AG, the restructuring accrual balance acquired was $45.5 and consisted of severance activities.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company concluded this plan and no additional restructuring costs will be incurred.
During 2016, the Company entered into a strategic alliance plan with the Inspur Group, a Chinese cloud computing and data center company, to develop, manufacture and distribute banking solutions in China.
The Company incurred $0.1 restructuring charges during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to this plan.
The Company anticipates minimal additional restructuring costs to be incurred through the end of the plan.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $67.6.
The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding borrowings on the short-term uncommitted lines of credit as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 5.89 percent and 9.17 percent, respectively, and primarily relate to short-term uncommitted lines of credit in India and Brazil.
The amount available under the short-term uncommitted lines at September 30, 2018 was $44.1.
The Company has a revolving and term loan credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), with a revolving facility of up to $500.0 (the Revolving Facility) and a secured term loan A facility (the Term Loan A Facility) in the amount of up to $230.0 as of September 30, 2018.
The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding Revolving Facility borrowings as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was 4.38 percent and 3.63 percent, respectively, which is variable based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
On August 30, 2018, the Company entered into a sixth amendment and incremental amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to its Credit Agreement.
The Amendment amended the financial covenants and established a new senior secured incremental term A-1 facility in an aggregate principal amount of $650.0 (Term Loan A-1 Facility) and makes certain other changes to the Credit Agreement.
A portion of the proceeds of the Term Loan A-1 Facility are restricted to fund the purchase of the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG not owned by the Company.
The proceeds were used to make optional prepayments of existing term A loans in the amount of $130.0 and to permanently reduce revolving credit commitments in an amount of $20.0 and to make a purchase pursuant to an offer open to all term B lenders on a pro rata basis for $100.0 in face principal amount of term B loans.
On May 9, 2017, the Company entered into an incremental amendment to its Credit Agreement (the Incremental Agreement) which reduced the initial term loan B facility (the Term Loan B Facility) of a $1,000.0 U.S. dollar-denominated tranche to $475.0.
The reduction was funded using the $250.0 proceeds drawn from the Delayed Draw Term Loan A Facility, a replacement of $70.0 with Term Loan B Facility - Euro and previous principal payments.
The debt facilities under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries that are borrowers or guarantors under the Credit Agreement, subject to certain exceptions and permitted liens.
The Company's financing agreements contain various financial covenants, including net debt to capitalization, net debt to EBITDA and net interest coverage ratio.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements.
interest related to the Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares the Company did not acquire of $386.7 and was reclassified to redeemable noncontrolling interest during the first quarter of 2017.
For the period of time that the DPLTA is effective, the noncontrolling interest related to the Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares the Company did not acquire will remain in redeemable noncontrolling interest and presented outside of equity in the condensed consolidated balance sheets of the Company.
As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the balance related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest related to the Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares the Company did not acquire was $136.4 and $454.6, respectively.
The change is primarily related to the redemption of Diebold Nixdorf AG 4.8 ordinary shares in the three and nine months ended of 2018.
The Company increased its ownership stake in Diebold Nixdorf AG to 27.7 ordinary shares, or approximately 93 percent, as of September 30, 2018, which has allowed the Company to initiate squeeze-out procedures to acquire the remaining outstanding shares.
The DPLTA offers the Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders, at their election, (i) the ability to put their Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares to Diebold KGaA in exchange for cash compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share or (ii) to remain Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders and receive a recurring compensation in cash of €2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share for each full fiscal year of Diebold Nixdorf AG.
A portion of the proceeds of the Term Loan A-1 Facility are restricted to fund the purchase of the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG not owned by the Company.
The Company classified the proceeds set aside to purchase the remaining shares in restricted cash in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The remaining balance relates to certain noncontrolling interests with redemption features, that include put rights that are not within the control of the issuer, which are considered redeemable noncontrolling interests.
The redeemable noncontrolling interests were recorded at fair value as by applying the income approach using unobservable inputs for projected cash flows, including but not limited, to net sales and operating profit, and a discount rate, which are considered Level 3 inputs.
The ultimate amount and timing of any future cash payments related to the put rights are uncertain.
In the first quarter of 2018, the Company acquired the remaining portion of its noncontrolling interest in its China operations for $5.8 in the aggregate.
During 2017, the Company acquired all the capital stock of Moxx and certain assets and liabilities of Visio for $5.6 in the aggregate, net of cash acquired, which are included in the Retail and Eurasia Banking segments, respectively.
During the third quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Moxx, which is a Netherlands based managed services company that provides managed mobility solutions for enterprises that use a large number of mobile assets in their business operations.
In the second quarter of 2017, the Company acquired Visio, which is a design company based in Germany.
During 2017, the Company divested its legacy Diebold business in the United Kingdom (U.K.) to Cennox Group for $5.0, fulfilling the requirements previously set forth by the U.K. Competition and Markets Authority (CMA).
The divestiture closed on June 30, 2017.
As part of the Company's routine efforts to evaluate its business operations, during 2017, the Company divested its electronic security (ES) businesses located in Mexico and Chile in the second and third quarters of 2017, respectively.
The Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $2.2 related to these transactions.
The combined net sales of the divestitures represented less than one percent of total net sales of the Company for 2017.
The Company has qualified retirement plans covering certain U.S. employees that have been closed to new participants since 2003 and frozen since December 2013.
Plans that cover salaried employees provide retirement benefits based on an employee’s compensation during the ten years before the date of the plan freeze or the date of the employee's actual separation from service, if earlier.
The Company’s funding policy for salaried plans is to contribute annually based on actuarial projections and applicable regulations.
Plans covering hourly employees generally provide benefits of stated amounts for each year of service.
The Company’s funding policy for hourly plans is to make at least the minimum annual contributions required by applicable regulations.
The Company has non-qualified pension plans to provide supplemental retirement benefits to certain officers, which were also frozen since December 2013.
Benefits are payable at retirement based upon a percentage of the participant’s compensation, as defined.
In addition to providing retirement benefits, the Company provides post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benefits (referred to as other benefits) for certain retired employees.
Retired eligible employees in the U.S. may be entitled to these benefits based upon years of service with the Company, age at retirement and collective bargaining agreements.
There are no plan assets and the Company funds the benefits as the claims are paid.
The post-retirement benefit obligation was determined by application of the terms of medical and life insurance plans together with relevant actuarial assumptions and healthcare cost trend rates.
The Company also has defined benefit plans in Germany and Switzerland, among others.
In Germany, post-employment benefit plans are set up as employer funded pension plans and deferred compensation plans.
The employer funded pension commitments in Germany are based upon direct performance-related commitments in terms of defined contribution plans.
Each beneficiary receives, depending on individual pay-scale grouping, contractual classification or income level, different yearly contributions.
The contribution is multiplied by an age factor appropriate to the respective pension plan and credited to the individual retirement account of the employee.
The retirement accounts may be used up at retirement by either a one-time lump-sum payout or payments of up to ten years.
In Switzerland, the post-employment benefit plan is required due to statutory provisions.
The employees receive their pension payments as a function of contributions paid, a fixed interest rate and annuity factors.
There have been no significant changes to the expected 2018 plan year contribution amounts previously disclosed.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, contributions of $29.2 and $20.2, respectively, were made to the qualified and non-qualified pension plans.
The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities.
The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business or financing activities.
The Company’s derivative foreign currency instruments are used to manage differences in the amount of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and cash payments principally related to the Company’s non functional currency assets and liabilities.
The Company's interest rate derivatives are used to manage the differences in amount due to variable rate interest rate borrowings.
As a result of the adoption of ASU 2017-12, $(0.4) and $2.4 was included in net sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively and $(0.7) and $(0.6) in cost of sales for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, which would have been included in foreign exchange gain (loss), net in the prior period.
Net Investment Hedges The Company has international subsidiaries with net balance sheet positions that generate cumulative translation adjustments within AOCI.
The Company uses the forward-to-forward method for its quarterly measurement of ineffectiveness assessments of hedge effectiveness.
The fair value of the Company’s net investment hedge contracts was $2.4 and $2.0 as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
The net loss recognized in AOCI on net investment hedge derivative instruments was $2.7 and $2.7 in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The net loss recognized in AOCI on net investment hedge derivative instruments was $13.6 and $4.1 in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
On August 15, 2016, the Company designated its €350.0 euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a net investment hedge of its investments in certain subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce volatility in stockholders' equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the U.S. dollar.
Effectiveness is assessed at least quarterly by confirming that the respective designated net investments' net equity balances at the beginning of any period collectively continues to equal or exceed the balance outstanding on the Company's euro-denominated term loan.
Changes in value that are deemed effective are accumulated in AOCI.
When the respective net investments are sold or substantially liquidated, the balance of the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI will be reclassified into earnings.
The net gain (loss) recognized in AOCI on net investment hedge foreign currency borrowings was $4.9 and $(37.8) for the nine months September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
On March 30, 2017, the Company de-designated €130.6 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility and on May 9, 2017, the Company designated an additional €66.8 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility as a result of its repricing described under note 11.
On September 21, 2017, the Company de-designated €101.1 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility.
On June 21, 2018, the Company re-designated €30.2 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility.
On July 23, 2018, the Company de-designated €180.2 of its euro-denominated Term Loan B Facility.
The Company has certain subsidiaries with the euro (EUR) as its functional currency that are primarily exposed to the U.S. dollar (USD) and Great Britain pound sterling (GBP).
For a portion of the remaining risk that is not naturally hedged, foreign currency forwards are used to manage the exposure between EUR-GBP and EUR-USD.
The Company has multiple pay-fixed receive-variable interest rate swaps outstanding with an aggregate notional amount of $400.0.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in AOCI and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings.
The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings.
The fair value of the Company's interest rate contracts was $14.3 and $9.8 as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively.
Amounts reported in AOCI related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable-rate debt.
The Company estimates that a minimal amount will be reclassified as a decrease to interest expense over the next year.
The Company has an interest rate swap for a nominal sum of €50.0, which was entered into in May 2010 with a ten-year term from October 1, 2010 until September 30, 2020.
For this interest rate swap, the three-month EURIBOR is received and a fixed interest of 2.97 percent is paid.
The fair value, which is measured at market prices, as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 was $(5.4) and $(5.5), respectively.
The interest rate contract is not designated and changes in the fair value of non-designated interest rate swap agreements are recognized in miscellaneous, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The Company recognized $0.5 and $1.5 in interest expense relating to the interest rate swap for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
During each of the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, there were no transfers between levels.
Refer to note 11 for further details surrounding the Company's long-term debt as of September 30, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017.
Additionally, the Company remeasures certain assets to fair value, using Level 3 measurements, as a result of the occurrence of triggering events.
In the third and second quarter of 2018, in connection with certain triggering events, the Company performed an impairment test of goodwill for all of its reporting units, see note 8 further details.
Besides goodwill from certain reporting units noted above, there were no significant assets or liabilities that were remeasured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during the period presented.
At September 30, 2018, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.9 for materials and services through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
In the event any losses are sustained in excess of accruals, they are charged against income.
In March 2017, the administrative proceedings concluded and the assessment was reduced approximately 95 percent to a total of R$17.3 including penalties and interest as of March 2017.
The Company is pursuing its remedies in the judicial sphere and management continues to believe that it has valid legal positions.
At September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the Company had accrual related to the Brazil indirect tax matter of $4.0 and $4.9, respectively.
In the third quarter of 2015, the Company received a prospective ruling from the U.S. Customs Border Protection which is consistent with the Company's interpretation of the treaty in question.
In August 2017, the Supreme Court of Thailand ruled in the Company's favor, finding that Customs' attempt to collect duties for importation of ATMs is improper.
The surviving matters remain at various stages of the appeals process and the Company will use the Supreme Court's decision in support of its position in those matters.
Management remains confident that the Company has a valid legal position in these appeals.
A loss contingency is reasonably possible if it has a more than remote but less than probable chance of occurring.
The Company estimated the aggregate risk at September 30, 2018 to be up to $125.8
for its material indirect tax matters, of which $21.1 and $27.0, respectively, primarily relates to the Brazil indirect tax matter and Thailand customs matter disclosed above.
The appraisal proceedings were filed by minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG challenging the adequacy of both, the cash exit compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share and the annual recurring compensation of €2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share offered in connection with the DPLTA.
A ruling by the court would apply to all Diebold Nixdorf AG shares outstanding at the time the DPLTA became effective.
While the Company believes that the compensation offered in connection with the DPLTA was fair and the claims lack merit, this matter is still at a preliminary stage and the outcome is uncertain.
The Company continually considers its operating structure and the information subject to regular review by its Chief Executive Officer, who is the CODM, to identify reportable operating segments.
For additional information related to the Company's revenue sources, refer to note 2.
Net non-routine expense consists of items that the Company has determined are non-routine in nature and not allocated to the reportable operating segments.
Net non-routine expense of $152.0 for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $109.3, acquisition integration expenses of $10.3 primarily within selling and administrative expense and purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $28.2.
Net non-routine expense of $206.2 for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was primarily due to legal, acquisition and divestiture related costs of $16.1 inclusive of the mark-to-market impact on Diebold Nixdorf AG stock options and integration expenses of $54.8 primarily
Each guarantor subsidiary is 100 percent owned by the Parent Company at the date of each balance sheet presented.
Each entity in the consolidating financial information follows the same accounting policies as described in the condensed consolidated financial statements, except for the use by the Parent Company and the guarantor subsidiaries of the equity method of accounting to reflect ownership interests in subsidiaries which are eliminated upon consolidation.
There have been no material developments with respect to the legal proceedings reported in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
Refer to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.
There has been no material change to this information since December 31, 2017.
