These leases support global staff via the use of office space, warehouses, vehicles for technicians and information technology (IT) equipment.
The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating.
Lease agreements are utilized worldwide, with the largest location concentration in the United States, Germany and India.
The effects of initially applying ASC 842 resulted in no cumulative adjustment to retained earnings in the period of adoption.
•The practical expedient related to land easements is not applicable as the Company currently does not utilize any easements.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases.
The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward.
•The Company declined the short-term lease exception, therefore recognizing all leases in the ROU asset and lease liability balances.
Consistent with ASC 842 requirements, leases that are one month or less are not included in the balance.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet.
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition, whereas the Company has an immaterial amount of finance leases that are primarily comprised of leases in Turkey which have higher interest rates.
Certain lease agreements include payments based on a variety of global indexes or rates.
These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities.
Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and therefore are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate.
For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation.
These amounts typically become known when the invoice is received, which is when expense is recognized.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
All contracts containing the right to use an underlying asset are reviewed to confirm that the contract meets the definition of a lease.
ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
For leases with large numbers of underlying assets, a portfolio approach with a collateralized rate was utilized.
Under the two-class method of computing earnings (loss) per share, non-vested share-based payment awards that contain rights to receive non-forfeitable dividends are considered participating securities.
The Company calculated basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share under both the treasury stock method and the two-class method.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no differences in the earnings (loss) per share amounts calculated under the two methods.
Accordingly, the treasury stock method is disclosed below.
Share-based compensation is primarily recognized as a component of selling and administrative expense.
Total share-based compensation expense was $9.3 and $13.7 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed its accounting estimate from using a forfeiture assumption to recording actual forfeitures.
The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Performance shares are granted to employees and vest based on the achievement of certain performance objectives, as determined by the board of directors each year.
Each performance share earned entitles the holder to one common share of the Company.
The Company's performance shares include performance objectives that are assessed after a three-year period as well as performance objectives that are assessed annually over a three-year period.
As of March 31, 2019, there were 0.1 non-employee director deferred shares vested and outstanding.
On April 25, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the 2017 Plan, which provide for an additional 3.0 common shares available for award.
The 2017 Plan is expected to attract and retain directors, officers and employees of the Company by providing incentives and rewards for performance.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (85.0) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The effective tax rate on the net loss was (40.4) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
The expense on the loss is due primarily from impacts related to GILTI on the estimated annual tax rate.
The increase in finished goods inventory was primarily attributable to increased in transit inventory to meet customer orders in Brazil, Thailand and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA).
The Company’s investments, primarily in Brazil, consist of certificates of deposit that are classified as available-for-sale and stated at fair value based upon quoted market prices.
Realized gains and losses are recognized in investment income and are determined using the specific identification method.
There were no realized gains from the sale of securities or proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
The Company has deferred compensation plans that enable certain employees to defer receipt of a portion of their cash, 401(k) or share-based compensation and non-employee directors to defer receipt of director fees at the participants’ discretion.
For deferred cash-based compensation, the Company established rabbi trusts (refer to note 18), which are recorded at fair value of the underlying securities within securities and other investments.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities in the rabbi trusts are recognized in interest income.
In addition, it includes an interest rate swap asset carrying value of $2.8 and $4.8 as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which also represents fair value (refer to note 18).
respectively, which are included in trade receivables, less allowances for doubtful accounts accounts payables on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In May 2017, the Company announced a strategic partnership with Kony, a leading enterprise mobility and application company, to offer white label mobile application solutions for financial institutions and retailers.
As of March 31, 2019, finance leases and notes receivable individually evaluated for impairment were $36.6 and $4.8, respectively, with no provision recorded.
As of March 31, 2018, finance leases and notes receivable individually evaluated for impairment were $32.4 and $15.0, respectively.
The income related to the finance lease receivables was minimal for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The Company records interest income and any fees or costs related to financing receivables using the effective interest method over the term of the lease or loan.
Credit quality is reviewed at inception and is re-evaluated as needed based on customer-specific circumstances.
Receivable balances 60 days to 89 days past due are reviewed and may be placed on nonaccrual status based on customer-specific circumstances.
Receivable balances are placed on nonaccrual status upon reaching greater than 89 days past due.
Upon receipt of payment on nonaccrual financing receivables, interest income is recognized and accrual of interest is resumed once the account has been made current or the specific circumstances have been resolved.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the recorded investment in past-due financing receivables was minimal and no recorded investment in the finance receivables was past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest.
During the second quarter of 2018, the Company performed an impairment test of goodwill for all of its line of business (LoB) reporting units due to the change in its reportable operating segments.
The Company identified four reporting units, which are Eurasia Banking, Americas Banking, EMEA Retail and Rest of World Retail.
Rest of World Retail had no carrying value as of December 31, 2018.
During the second and third quarters 2018, the Company estimated the fair value of its reporting units using a combination of the income valuation and market approach methodologies.
As a result of certain impairment triggering events, the Company performed an interim impairment test of goodwill for its four reporting units during the third quarter of 2018.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions for suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.
If the Company is not able to make payments or fulfill contractual obligations, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank.
The Company provides its customers a manufacturer’s warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs.
as labor rates, average repair time, travel time, number of service calls per machine and cost of replacement parts.
The decrease in the liability was primarily due to warranties expiring in Brazil and Germany.
DN2020 Plan.
As of August 15, 2016, the date of the acquisition of Wincor Nixdorf Aktiengesellschaft (now known as Diebold Nixdorf AG) (the Acquisition), the Company launched a multi-year integration and transformation program, known as DN2020.
The Company incurred restructuring charges of $3.8 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to this plan.
Strategic Alliance Plan.
On November 10, 2016, the Company entered into a strategic alliance with the Inspur Group, a Chinese cloud computing and data center company, to develop, manufacture and distribute Systems solutions in China.
The Company incurred $0.1 restructuring charges during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to this plan.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $50.8.
The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding borrowings on the short-term uncommitted lines of credit as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was 8.83 percent and 8.80 percent, respectively, and primarily relate to short-term uncommitted lines of credit in India and Brazil.
The amount available under the short-term uncommitted lines at March 31, 2019 was $32.4.
The Company has a revolving and term loan credit agreement (the Credit Agreement), with a revolving facility of up to $500.0 (the Revolving Facility).
The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding Revolving Facility borrowings as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was 6.00 percent and 5.97 percent, respectively, which is variable based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).
The amount available under the Revolving Facility as of March 31, 2019 was $337.5, after excluding $27.5 in letters of credit.
On May 9, 2017, the Company entered into an incremental amendment to its Credit Agreement (the Incremental Agreement) which reduced the initial term loan B facility (the Term Loan B Facility) of a $1,000.0 U.S. dollar-denominated tranche to $475.0.
The reduction was funded using the $250.0 proceeds drawn from the Delayed Draw Term Loan A Facility, a replacement of $70.0 with Term Loan B Facility - Euro and previous principal payments.
On August 30, 2018, the Company entered into a sixth amendment and incremental amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to its Credit Agreement.
The Amendment amended the financial covenants and established a new senior secured incremental term A-1 facility in an aggregate principal amount of $650.0 (Term Loan A-1 Facility) and makes certain other changes to the Credit Agreement.
The proceeds were used to make optional prepayments of existing term A loans in the amount of $130.0 and to permanently reduce revolving credit commitments in an amount of $20.0 and to make a purchase pursuant to an offer open to all term B lenders on a pro rata basis for $100.0 in face principal amount of term B loans.
The Company has $400.0 aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2024 (the 2024 Senior Notes), which are and will be guaranteed by certain of the Company’s existing and future subsidiaries and mature in April 2024.
The debt facilities under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries that are borrowers or guarantors under the Credit Agreement, subject to certain exceptions and permitted liens.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements.
Nixdorf, Incorporated, and Diebold Nixdorf AG, the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest related to the Diebold Nixdorf AG of $386.7 was reclassified to redeemable noncontrolling interest.
For the period of time that the DPLTA is effective, this interest in Diebold Nixdorf AG will remain in redeemable noncontrolling interest and presented outside of equity in the consolidated balance sheets of the Company.
As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the balance related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest related to the Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares the Company did not acquire was $87.4 and $99.1, respectively.
The Company increased its ownership stake in Diebold Nixdorf AG to 28.4 ordinary shares, or approximately 95.3 percent, as of March 31, 2019.
In March 2019, at a Diebold Nixdorf AG shareholder meeting, a merger squeeze-out was approved and, as a result, Diebold Nixdorf AG and Diebold KGaA will continue to execute the squeeze-out procedures.
The DPLTA offers the Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders, at their election, (i) the ability to put their Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares to Diebold KGaA in exchange for cash compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share or (ii) to remain Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders and receive a recurring compensation in cash of €2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share for each full fiscal year of Diebold Nixdorf AG.
The Company classified the proceeds set aside to purchase the remaining shares in restricted cash in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
The remaining balance relates to certain noncontrolling interests with redemption features, that include put rights that are not within the control of the issuer, which are considered redeemable noncontrolling interests.
The redeemable noncontrolling interests were recorded at fair value as by applying the income approach using unobservable inputs for projected cash flows, including but not limited, to net sales and operating profit, and a discount rate, which are considered Level 3 inputs.
The ultimate amount and timing of any future cash payments related to the put rights are uncertain.
In the first quarter of 2019, the Company liquidated its SecurCash B.V. Netherlands entity, a cash transportation services business, Diebold Hungary Manufacturing, a manufacturing business and three Barbados holding companies resulting in a gain of $3.5.
The Company divested its interest in Projective NV, a program and project management services business for financial institutions, for $4.2 in proceeds, net of cash transferred resulting in a loss of $2.8.
The Company also recorded a loss of $4.1 on the divestiture of its Venezuela business.
In the first quarter of 2018, the Company acquired the remaining portion of its noncontrolling interest in its China operations for $5.8 in the aggregate.
The Company has qualified retirement plans covering certain U.S. employees that have been closed to new participants since 2003 and frozen since December 2013.
Plans that cover salaried employees provide retirement benefits based on an employee’s compensation during the ten years before the date of the plan freeze or the date of the employee's actual separation from service, if earlier.
The Company’s funding policy for salaried plans is to contribute annually based on actuarial projections and applicable regulations.
Plans covering hourly employees generally provide benefits of stated amounts for each year of service.
The Company has non-qualified pension plans to provide supplemental retirement benefits to certain officers, which have also been frozen since December 2013.
Benefits are payable at retirement based upon a percentage of the participant’s compensation, as defined.
In addition to providing retirement benefits, the Company provides post-employment healthcare and life insurance benefits (referred to as other benefits) for certain retired employees.
Retired eligible employees in the United States may be entitled to these benefits based upon years of service with the Company, age at retirement and collective bargaining agreements.
There are no plan assets and the Company funds the benefits as the claims are paid.
The post-employment benefit obligation was determined by application of the terms of medical and life insurance plans together with relevant actuarial assumptions and healthcare cost trend rates.
The Company also has defined benefit plans in Germany and Switzerland, among others.
In Germany, post-employment benefit plans are set up as employer funded pension plans and deferred compensation plans.
The employer funded pension commitments in Germany are based upon direct performance-related commitments in terms of defined contribution plans.
Each beneficiary receives, depending on individual pay-scale grouping, contractual classification or income level, different yearly contributions.
The contribution is multiplied by an age factor appropriate to the respective pension plan and credited to the individual retirement account of the employee.
The retirement accounts may be used up at retirement by either a one-time lump-sum payout or payments of up to ten years.
In Switzerland, the post-employment benefit plan is required due to statutory provisions.
The employees receive their pension payments as a function of contributions paid, a fixed interest rate and annuity factors.
There have been no significant changes to the expected 2019 plan year contribution amounts previously disclosed.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, contributions of $11.9 and $22.6, respectively, were made to the qualified and non-qualified pension plans.
The Company anticipates reimbursement of approximately $13 for certain benefits paid from its trustee in 2019.
In March 2018, the Company received a $13.8 reimbursement for certain benefits paid from its trustees.
The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities.
The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business or financing activities.
The Company’s derivative foreign currency instruments are used to manage differences in the amount of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and cash payments principally related to the Company’s non functional currency assets and liabilities.
The Company's interest rate derivatives are used to manage the differences in amount due to variable rate interest rate borrowings.
Amounts reported in AOCI related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable-rate debt.
The Company estimates that a minimal amount will be reclassified as a decrease to interest expense over the next year.
In November 2016, the Company entered into multiple pay-fixed receive-variable interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $400.0.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in AOCI and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings.
The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings.
The Company has an interest rate swap for a nominal sum of €50.0, which was entered into in May 2010 with a ten-year term from October 1, 2010 until September 30, 2020.
designated interest rate swap agreements are recognized in miscellaneous, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
The Company recognized $0.5 in interest expense relating to the interest rate swap for both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
During each of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no transfers between levels.
Refer to note 11 for further details surrounding the Company's long-term debt as of March 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018.
Additionally, the Company remeasures certain assets to fair value, using Level 3 measurements, as a result of the occurrence of triggering events.
In the second and third quarters of 2018, in connection with certain triggering events, the Company performed impairment tests of goodwill for all of its reporting units, refer to note 8 for further details.
Besides goodwill from certain reporting units noted above, there were no significant assets or liabilities that were remeasured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during the period presented.
At March 31, 2019, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.1 for materials and services through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
In the event any losses are sustained in excess of accruals, they are charged against income.
The Company has challenged multiple customs rulings in Thailand seeking to retroactively collect customs duties on previous imports of automatic teller machines (ATMs).
In August 2017 and March 2019, the Supreme Court of Thailand ruled in the Company's favor in two of the matters, finding that Customs' attempt to collect duties for importation of ATMs was improper.
The surviving matters remain at various stages of the appeals process and the Company will use the Supreme Court's decisions in support of its position in those matters.
A loss contingency is reasonably possible if it has a more than remote but less than probable chance of occurring.
The Company estimated the aggregate risk at March 31, 2019 to be up to $118.7 for its material indirect tax matters, of which $27.0 related to the Thailand customs matter disclosed above.
The appraisal proceedings were filed by minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG challenging the adequacy of both the cash exit compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share and the annual recurring compensation of €2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share offered in connection with the DPLTA.
was fair and the claims lack merit, this matter is still at a preliminary stage and the outcome is uncertain.
Net non-routine expense consists of items that the Company has determined are non-routine in nature and not allocated to the reportable operating segments.
Net non-routine expense of $47.8 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily consisted of purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $24.6 and legal, consulting and deal expense of $20.7.
Net non-routine expense of $37.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily due to acquisition integration expenses of $15.2, primarily within selling and administrative expense, and purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $31.2.
Each guarantor subsidiary is 100 percent owned by the Parent Company at the date of each balance sheet presented.
The 2024 Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by each guarantor subsidiary.
Each entity in the consolidating financial information follows the same accounting policies as described in the condensed consolidated financial statements, except for the use by the Parent Company and the guarantor subsidiaries of the equity method of accounting to reflect ownership interests in subsidiaries which are eliminated upon consolidation.
There have been no material developments with respect to the legal proceedings reported in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Refer to the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
There has been no material change to this information since December 31, 2018.
