•Benefited from solid growth in self-checkout (SCO) demand from a number of European customers, including a $7.0 contract with U.K.-based retailer, Co-Op, for more than 400 self-checkout terminals and related services
The Company is a world leader in enabling Connected Commerce through automating, digitizing and transforming the way people bank and shop. The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day. As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world. The Company has a presence in more than 100 countries with approximately 23,000 employees worldwide. 
These work streams are designed to improve the Company’s profitability and net leverage while establishing a foundation for future growth. The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $175 is anticipated 
to be realized during 2019. In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings. By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail. Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers its clients the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business. 
For example, the Company offers end-to-end branch and store automation solutions that consist of the complete value chain of consult, design, build and operate. Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels. The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk. Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions. The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. The Americas region encompasses the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico and Latin America.
For banking clients, services represents the largest operational component of the Company. Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect ServicesSM was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes. This as-a-service offering provides financial institutions with the capabilities and technology needed to make physical distribution channels as agile, integrated, efficient and differentiated as their digital counterparts by leveraging a data-driven Internet of Things (IoT) infrastructure. The Company’s product-related services resolve incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit. The portfolio includes first and second line maintenance, preventive maintenance, “on-demand” and total implementation services. 
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch. Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
From a product perspective, the banking portfolio consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions. The Company assists financial institutions to increase the functionality, availability and security within their ATM fleet. 
During the second quarter, the Company introduced the DN Series of ATMs, a family of self-service solutions designed to anticipate the needs of a progressively transforming industry. These holistic, digitally-connected solutions are built upon an integrated software and services model and provided a modern and personalized experience for consumers, while delivering maximum efficiency and reliability for financial institutions.
The Company's DN Vynamic software is the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience. In addition, DN Vynamic suite's open application program interface (API) architecture is built to simplify operations by eliminating the traditional focus on internal silos and enabling tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers. In addition, with a shared analytic and transaction engine, the DN Vynamic platform can generate new insights to enhance operations across any channel — putting consumer preferences, not the technology, at the heart of the experience. 
An important enabler of the Company’s software offerings are the professional service employees who provide systems integration, customization, project management and consulting. The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail solutions, software and services improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers.
•Realization of cost reductions, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies.
Services gross margin increased 5.0 percent and 2.7 percent in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively. Both the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 were unfavorably impacted by higher restructuring charges of $2.9 and $2.4, respectively. For the three months ended June 30, 2019, non-routine charges were flat compared to the prior-year period. The six months ended June 30, 2019 were favorably impacted by lower non-routine charges of $2.0 primarily related to a recovery on a spare parts inventory provision in 2019 and higher integration costs in 2018. Excluding restructuring and non-routine charges, services gross margin increased 5.4 percent and 2.8 percent, respectively, for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 as services margin increased in the Eurasia banking segment related to the favorable impact of the services modernization initiatives and favorable mix of higher margin installation activity driven by the Company's focus on more profitable business. The three and six months ended June 30, 2018, were unfavorably impacted by one-time banking services cost in Brazil.
Selling and administrative expense increased in both the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 by $2.3 and $2.7, respectively. Excluding higher incremental restructuring of $1.7 and higher non-routine charges of $11.0, the three months ended June 30, 2019 expense decreased $10.4. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, excluding higher incremental restructuring of $2.6 and non-routine charges of $17.1, the expense decreased $17.0. The decrease in selling and administrative expense for both the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 is primarily attributable to the cost reduction initiatives and restructuring program savings across the segments tied to the DN Now program partially offset by an unfavorable impact of the mark-to-market adjustment of the legacy Wincor Nixdorf stock option program.
Non-routine cost in selling and administrative expense was $52.0 and $98.8 in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, an increase of $12.8 and $19.8, respectively, compared to the prior-year periods. The higher non-routine costs in the three months ended June 30, 2019 consisted of increased DN Now transformation expense and $2.5 related to a one-time non-cash item in Brazil. The six months ended June 30, 2019 consisted of increased DN Now transformation expense, a one-time non-cash accounts receivable discount in Brazil and $5.6 related to the German real estate tax from the squeeze out in the first quarter of 2019. These increases were partially offset by lower integration expense of $26.5 and purchase accounting adjustments of $3.9. Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $4.8 and $7.0 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, or $1.7 and $2.6, respectively, higher than the prior-year periods, related to the workforce alignment under the DN Now plan.
The Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $83.1 in the second quarter of 2018.
In the three months ended June 30, 2019, the loss on sale of assets consists mainly of the loss on the finalization of divestitures in the retail and banking SecurCash businesses. The six months ended June 30, 2019 included the loss of the Venezuela business and losses from the divestiture and liquidation of non-core businesses in Eurasia. The gain of $6.9 in the prior-year period was primarily related to the sale of a building in North America of $4.5 and the liquidation of the Barbados operating entity of $3.3.
Operating expense as a percent of net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019 decreased 7.6 percent to 23.5 percent compared to the same period in 2018 and decreased 3.2 percent to 24.7 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018. The decreases were due primarily from the impairment charge in 2018 and lower research, development and engineering expense, partially offset by the gains on sale of a building in North America and the impact of divestitures.
Interest income was relatively flat for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. Interest expense increased $21.5 and $46.4 in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, compared to the same prior-year periods due to higher domestic interest rates and the incurrence of the additional $650.0 of Term Loan A-1 Facility debt with higher incremental interest rates and related fee amortization. Foreign exchange loss increased $2.0 in the three months ended June 30, 2019 and decreased $2.2 in the six months ended June 30, 2019 primarily as a result of the currency devaluation in the Venezuela operating entity in the current year. Miscellaneous net, decreased $2.3 and $1.0 in the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, impacted by lower costs associated with the company owned life insurance.
The loss before taxes and net loss decreased primarily due to the reasons described above. Net loss was also impacted by the change in the income tax expense.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (20.0) percent for the three months ended June 30, 2019 and (59.5) percent for the six months ended June 30, 2019. The tax expense on the loss is due primarily to the impacts of the Tax Act on the estimated projected tax rate, more specifically, the impacts of GILTI and BEAT. In addition, for the six months ended June 30, 2019, the Company collapsed its Barbados structure to meet the covenant requirements under its credit agreement, which resulted in additional discrete tax expense, which was offset in part by the valuation allowance release relating to the Company’s nondeductible interest expense that was carried forward from December 31, 2018. The above items noted as well as the Company’s jurisdictional income (loss) mix at varying statutory rates are the primary drivers of the quarterly tax rate.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was 18.8 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 5.1 percent for the six months ended June 30, 2018. The benefit on the losses for these periods was decreased primarily due to nondeductible permanent discrete adjustment associated with the goodwill impairment charge and the impacts of the Tax Act, more specifically, impacts related to GILTI on the estimated annual tax rate.
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, Americas Banking net sales increased $49.3 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $3.1 related to the Canada dollar and Brazil real. Excluding currency and the impact of a small divestiture, net sales increased $53.4 primarily due to increased product volume related to unit replacements from Windows 10 upgrades in Brazil, Canada and Mexico, and continued demand for cash recyclers in Brazil, Canada and Mexico, slightly offset by lower services revenue in the U.S. related maintenance contracts. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, Americas Banking net sales increased $78.3 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $9.0 related to the Brazil real. Excluding currency and a small divestiture, net sales increased $89.7 driven primarily by product sales in Canada, Brazil Mexico and the U.S regional customers related to unit replacements from Windows 10 upgrades. Partially offsetting the increases, services revenue declined from lower maintenance contract volume and billed work activity in the U.S.
Segment operating profit increased $35.8 and $49.3 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, mostly from DN Now initiatives favorably impacting both cost of sales and operating expense. Gross profit was favorably impacted by current large product refresh projects in Canada and favorable solution mix in Brazil and Latin America. Additionally, the Company made improvements to supply chain management resulting in lower expedited freight costs. The three and six months ended June 30, 2018 were unfavorably impacted by one-time banking services cost in Brazil. 
For the three months ended June 30, 2019, Retail net sales increased $2.6 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $15.7 mostly related to the euro and divestitures of $4.8. Excluding currency and the impact of divestitures, net sales increased $23.1 primarily from SCO growth in western Europe. For the six months ended June 30, 2019, Retail net sales decreased $10.0 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $39.7 mostly related to the euro and divestitures of $9.8. Excluding currency and the impact of divestitures, net sales increased $39.5 primarily from higher product volume driven by incremental reverse vending projects and large POS system roll outs in Germany, Belgium and the U.K.
Segment operating profit increased $10.1 and $8.0 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $0.6 and $2.9, respectively. Excluding the impact of currency, segment operating profit increased $10.7 and $10.9 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, as lower costs and expenses tied to DN Now initiatives as well as higher volume and favorable service mix related to maintenance and support activities in Europe. 
Segment operating profit margin increased 3.4 percent and 1.5 percent for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, primarily from lower costs and expenses tied to DN Now initiatives as well as higher volume and favorable service mix related to maintenance and support activities in Europe.
Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash used by operating activities was $67.6 for the six months ended June 30, 2019, a decrease in use of $189.0 from $256.6 for the same period in 2018.
•Cash flows from operating activities during the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 were impacted by a $6.7 decrease in net loss. Refer to the Results of Operations discussed above for further discussion of the Company's net loss.
Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $9.5 to $115.8 during the six months ended June 30, 2019 compared to $125.3 during the same period in 2018 primarily due to a reduction in capital spend. Share-based compensation decreased $6.2 to $14.1 for the six months ended June 30, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in shares awarded in 2019.
The maturities and purchases of investments primarily relate to short-term investment activity in Brazil. The $25.8 change was primarily due to a reduction in utilization of short-term investments in Brazil for cash needs as well as a reduction in the Company's capital spend.
Dividends The Company paid dividends of $7.7 in the six months ended June 30, 2018. In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs. As a result, there was no dividend for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019. 
Contractual Obligations In the first half of 2019, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price. At June 30, 2019, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.1 for materials through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the condensed consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables. The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to make payment, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. Refer to note 9 for further details of guarantees. The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables. The Company records these sales by removing finance receivables from the condensed consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
•the effect of legislative and regulatory actions in the U.S. and internationally;
•the Company's ability to successfully amend and extend any or a portion of its senior secured revolving credit facility and term loan debt that matures in 2020.
Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
