•Renewed two multi-year services contracts, valued at more than $90, with a top-three financial institution in the U.S. and a top-tier bank in Western Europe
The Company automates, digitizes and transforms the way people bank and shop.
The Company’s integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day.
As an innovation partner for nearly all of the world's top 100 financial institutions and a majority of the top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world.
The gross annualized savings target for DN Now is approximately $400 through 2021, of which $160 is anticipated to be realized during 2019.
In order to achieve these savings, the Company has and will continue to restructure the workforce, integrate and optimize systems and processes, transition workloads to lower cost locations and consolidate real estate holdings.
By executing on these and other operational improvement activities, the Company expects to increase customer intimacy and satisfaction, while providing career enrichment opportunities for employees and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Company’s operating structure is focused on its two customer segments - Banking and Retail.
Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and systems that drive the most value to their business.
Branch and store automation helps financial institutions and retailers grow revenue, reduce costs, and increase convenience and security for their customers by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch or store, to lower-cost automated channels.
The Company’s advisory services team collaborates with its clients to define the ideal customer experience, modify processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technologies that meet business objectives.
The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk.
Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions.
The Eurasia region includes the developed economies of Western Europe as well as the emerging economies of Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
The Americas region encompasses the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico and Latin America.
For banking clients, services represents the largest operational component of the Company.
Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect Services was launched in 2018 to power the business operations of financial institutions of all sizes.
Managed services and outsourcing consists of managing the end-to-end business processes, technology integration and day-to-day operation of the self-service channel and the bank branch.
Our integrated business solutions include self-service fleet management, branch life-cycle management and ATM as-a-service capabilities.
From a product perspective, the banking portfolio consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions.
The Company assists financial institutions to increase the functionality, availability and security within their ATM fleet.
The Company’s software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and integration.
These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels.
In 2017, the Company introduced DN Vynamic™ Software, the first end-to-end Connected Commerce software portfolio in the banking marketplace designed to simplify and enhance the consumer experience.
In addition, DN Vynamic suite's open application program interface (API) architecture is built to simplify operations by eliminating the traditional focus on internal silos and enabling tomorrow's inter-connected partnerships between financial institutions and payment providers.
In addition, with a shared analytic and transaction engine, the DN Vynamic platform can generate new insights to enhance operations across any channel - putting consumer preferences, not the technology, at the heart of the experience.
The Company's advisory services team collaborates with customers to refine the end-user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to automate both branches and stores.
The Company’s comprehensive portfolio of retail solutions, software and services improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers.
Service personnel supervise store openings, renewals and transformation projects, with attention to local details and customers’ global IT infrastructure.
•Realization of cost reductions, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this quarterly report on Form 10-Q.
Services gross margin increased 0.5 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2019, favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $0.5 and lower non-routine charges of $2.2 primarily related to a gain on a spare parts inventory provision in 2019 and integration costs in 2018.
Product gross margin increased 3.3 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2019, favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges of $0.6 and lower non-routine charges of $4.6 primarily related to lower purchase accounting adjustments of amortization and gain on a product inventory provision, partially offset by the reversal of the Brazil indirect tax in the prior year.
Additionally, product gross margin improved from a favorable banking customer mix in Eurasia and Latin America, partially offset by increased software cost throughout the segments.
Selling and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $0.4 including higher incremental restructuring of $0.9 and non-routine charges of $6.1.
Excluding the impact of restructuring, non-routine charges and a net favorable currency impact of $8.9, mostly related to the euro, selling and administrative expense increased $2.3, primarily from higher
These increases are mostly offset by cost reduction initiatives and restructuring programs across the segments tied to the DN Now program.
Non-routine cost in selling and administrative expense was $44.5 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $6.1 compared to the prior year.
Higher non-routine cost consisted of increased legal and consulting expense of $20.5 inclusive of $5.6 related to the squeeze out real estate tax, and $3.0 related to a one-time non-cash accounts receivable discount in Brazil.
These increases were partially offset by lower integration expense of $14.6 and purchase accounting adjustments of $2.6.
Selling and administrative expense included restructuring charges of $2.2, or $0.9 higher than the prior year, related to the workforce alignment under the DN Now plan.
Research, development and engineering expense in the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $4.8 including a net favorable currency impact of $2.3, primarily related to the euro.
Loss of $3.4 on sale of assets recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2019 includes the loss on divestitures of the Venezuela business of $4.1 and a Eurasia non-core business of $2.8, partially offset by a gain on the liquidation of a separate Eurasia non-core business of $3.5.
The gain of $7.7 in the prior year was primarily related to the sale of a building in North America of $4.5 and the liquidation of the Barbados operating entity of $3.3.
The operating loss increased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 including an unfavorable currency impact of $0.8, related primarily to the euro and higher non-routine charges.
Interest expense increased $24.9 compared to the same prior-year
period due to the acquisition of the additional $650.0 of Term Loan A-1 Facility debt with higher incremental interest rates and related fee amortization.
Miscellaneous net, decreased $1.3 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, unfavorably impacted by higher costs and lower benefits associated with the company owned life insurance.
The loss before taxes and net loss increased primarily due to the reasons described above.
The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was (85.0) percent for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
More specifically, the impacts of the GILTI and BEAT.
The expense on the loss is due primarily from impacts related to GILTI on the estimated annual tax rate.
Eurasia Banking net sales decreased $52.5 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $35.7 related primarily to the euro.
Excluding currency, net sales decreased $16.8 as services revenue decreased primarily from a maintenance contract roll off with a particular customer in India as well as lower products volume in various Asia Pacific countries, most notably in Taiwan from prior year non-recurring project volume.
Additionally, software revenue decreased slightly from a non-core business and in Germany.
These decreases were partially offset by increased unit replacements in Germany related to Windows 10 upgrades.
Segment operating profit increased $14.2 in the three months ended March 31, 2019, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $4.5, primarily due to the euro.
Americas Banking net sales increased $29.0 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $5.9 related to the Brazil real.
Excluding currency, net sales increased $34.9 primarily due to increased installation volume in Canada and the U.S. as well as improved supply chain management in North America.
Increased products volume in the Latin America distributor business, Chile and Ecuador drove higher revenue as well as software license volume in Brazil.
Partially offsetting these increases, services revenue declined from lower billed work activity and maintenance contract volume in the U.S.
Segment operating profit increased $13.5 mostly from DN Now initiatives favorably impacting both operating expense and gross profit.
Higher software cost in 2019 partially offset these increases.
Retail net sales decreased $12.6 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $24.0 mostly related to the euro.
Segment operating profit decreased $2.1 including a net unfavorable currency impact of $1.6.
Additionally, products gross profit was relatively flat from increased volume to an unfavorable solution mix in North America and EMEA.
Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.
Net cash used by operating activities was $57.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2019, a decrease in use of $85.2 from $142.3 for the same period in 2018.
•Cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 were impacted by a $66.3 increase in net loss.
Refer to the Results of Operations discussed above for further discussion of the Company's net loss.
Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $6.0 to $58.4 during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $64.4 during the same period in 2018 primarily due to a reduction in capital spend.
Share-based compensation decreased $4.4 to $9.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in shares awarded in 2019.
The maturities and purchases of investments primarily relate to short-term investment activity in Brazil.
The $44.7 change was primarily due to a reduction in utilization of short-term investments in Brazil for cash needs.
Net cash used by financing activities was $13.9 and $91.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, a decrease of $77.5.
The change was primarily due a decrease in net borrowings (repayments) under the Company's revolving facility and the reduction in dividend payments.
The decreases in use were partially offset by $10.5 in higher cash distributions related to the redemption of shares and cash compensation to Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders of $11.0 for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $0.5 in the prior-year period.
As defined by the Company's credit agreement, the ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was 5.7 times as of March 31, 2019.
Refer to note 17 for additional information regarding the Company's hedging and derivative instruments.
Dividends The Company paid dividends of $7.7 in the three months ended March 31, 2018.
In May 2018, the Company announced its decision to reallocate future dividend funds towards debt reduction and other capital resource needs.
As a result, there was no quarterly dividend for the three months ended March 31, 2019.
The quarterly dividend was $0.10 per share for the three months ended March 31, 2018.
Contractual Obligations In the first quarter of 2019, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price.
At March 31, 2019, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.1 for materials through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices.
Except for the items noted above, all contractual cash obligations with initial and remaining terms in excess of one year and contingent liabilities remained generally unchanged at March 31, 2019 compared to December 31, 2018.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the condensed consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers.
If the Company is not able to make payment, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank.
The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables.
The records these sales by removing finance receivables from the condensed consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
These estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and judgment.
Previously, U.S. GAAP only required balance sheet recognition for leases classified as capital leases.
The Company is not obligated to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
•the effect of legislative and regulatory actions in the U.S. and internationally and the Company’s ability to comply with government regulations;
Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
