The Company has reclassified the presentation of certain prior-year information to conform to the current presentation. 
The Company reclassified an immaterial amount of $8.1 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 within the operating activities of the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows between depreciation and amortization and certain other assets and liabilities to correct its presentation. 
The Company utilizes lease agreements to meet its operating needs. These leases support global staff via the use of office space, warehouses, vehicles and information technology (IT) equipment. The Company utilizes both operating and finance leases in its portfolio of leased assets, however, the majority of these leases are classified as operating. A significant portion of the volume of the lease portfolio is in fleet vehicles and IT office equipment; however, real estate leases constitute a majority of the value of the ROU assets. Lease agreements are utilized worldwide, with the largest location concentration in the United States, Germany and India.
•The Company declined the hindsight practical expedient to determine the lease term and ROU asset impairment for existing leases. The decision to decline the hindsight practical expedient resulted in relying on assessments made under ASC 840 during transition and re-assessing under ASC 842 going forward. 
•The Company declined the short-term lease exception, therefore recognizing all leases in the ROU asset and lease liability balances. Consistent with ASC 842 requirements, leases that are one month or less are not included in the balance.
•The Company elected to not separate non-lease components from lease components and, instead, to account for each separate lease component and the non-lease components associated with it as a single lease component, recognized on the balance sheet. This election has been made for all classes of underlying assets. 
The weighted-average discount rates used for operating and finance leases varies due to the jurisdictional composition. The Company has an immaterial amount of finance leases that are primarily comprised of leases in Turkey which have higher interest rates.
Certain lease agreements include payments based on a variety of global indexes or rates. These payment amounts have been projected using the index or rate as of lease commencement or the transition date and measured in ROU assets and lease liabilities. Other leases contain variable payments that are based on actual usage of the underlying assets and, therefore, are not measured in assets or liabilities as the variable payments are not based on an index or a rate. For real estate leases, these payments are most often tied to non-committed maintenance or utilities charges, and for equipment leases, to actual output or hours in operation. These amounts typically become known when the invoice is received, which is when expense is recognized. In rare circumstances, the Company's lease agreements may contain residual value guarantees. The Company's lease agreements do not contain any restrictions or covenants, such as those relating to dividends or incurring additional financial obligations.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any material leases that have not yet commenced but that create significant rights and obligations.
The Company determines whether an arrangement is or includes a lease at contract inception. All contracts containing the right to use an underlying asset are reviewed to confirm that the contract meets the definition of a lease. ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date and initially measured based on the present value of lease payments over the defined lease term.
As most leases do not provide an implicit rate, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments. In order to apply the incremental borrowing rate, a rate table was developed to assign the appropriate rate to each lease based on lease term and currency of payments. For leases with large numbers of underlying assets, a portfolio approach with a collateralized rate was utilized. Assets were grouped based on similar lease terms and economic environments in a manner whereby the Company reasonably expects that the application does not differ materially from a lease-by-lease approach.
The Company’s share-based compensation payments to employees are recognized based on their grant-date fair values during the period in which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award. Share-based compensation is primarily recognized as a component of selling and administrative expense. Total share-based compensation expense was $5.3 and $6.9 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and was $19.4 and $27.2 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In the first quarter of 2019, the Company changed its accounting estimate from using a forfeiture assumption to recording actual forfeitures. The change resulted in an immaterial increase in share-based compensation expense in the first quarter of 2019. Share-based compensation decreased $7.8 to $19.4 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 primarily due to a reduction in performance shares awarded in 2019.
The options expected to vest are the result of applying the pre-vesting forfeiture rate assumption to total outstanding non-vested options.
As of September 30, 2019, there were 0.1 non-employee director deferred shares vested and outstanding.
On April 25, 2019, the Company's shareholders approved amendments to the 2017 Plan, which provide for an additional 3.0 common shares available for award. The 2017 Plan is expected to attract and retain directors, officers and employees of the Company by providing incentives and rewards for performance.
The effective tax rate on the loss from continuing operations was (17.2) percent for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and (50.8) percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2019. The expense on the loss was primarily due to the tax impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) on the estimated projected tax rate, more specifically, the impacts related to global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) and the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT). In addition, during the first quarter the 
The effective tax rate on the loss before taxes was (22.3) percent for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and (8.5) percent for the nine months ended September 30, 2018. The expense on the loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge, the impacts of the Tax Act and the higher interest expense burden resulting from the debt restructuring. More specifically, the expense on the loss reflects refinement of the transition tax, the impacts related to GILTI and the business interest deduction limitation which, as a result of the Company’s debt restructuring activities during the third quarter of 2018, required a full valuation allowance on the current year nondeductible business interest expense. In addition, the benefit on the losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was reduced by the goodwill impairment charge, which for tax purposes is primarily nondeductible, of $134.4 and $83.1 incurred in the third and second quarters of 2018, respectively. 
The Company has deferred compensation plans that enable certain employees to defer receipt of a portion of their cash, 401(k) or share-based compensation and non-employee directors to defer receipt of director fees at the participants’ discretion. For deferred cash-based compensation, the Company established rabbi trusts (refer to note 18), which are recorded at fair value of the underlying 
Securities and other investments also includes a cash surrender value of insurance contracts of $8.1 and $11.1 as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively. The decrease is primarily due to death benefits paid. In addition, it includes an interest rate swap asset carrying value of $0.4 and $4.8 as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, respectively, which also represents fair value (refer to note 18).
In May 2017, the Company announced a strategic partnership with Kony, a leading enterprise mobility and application company, to offer white label mobile application solutions for financial institutions and retailers. In September 2019, the Company's interest in Kony was sold for cash proceeds of $21.3. The Company's carrying value in Kony was $14.0, resulting in a gain of $7.3.
The Company provides financing arrangements to customers purchasing its products. These financing arrangements are largely classified and accounted for as sales-type leases.
There were no significant changes in provision for credit losses, recoveries and write-offs during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018. As of September 30, 2019, finance leases and notes receivable individually evaluated for impairment were $33.4 and $4.8, respectively, with no provision recorded. As of September 30, 2018, finance leases and notes receivable individually evaluated for impairment were $30.5 and $10.8, respectively. There have been no material changes to the balances on the finance lease receivables maturity schedule since December 31, 2018. The income related to the finance lease receivables was minimal for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019.
The Company records interest income and any fees or costs related to financing receivables using the effective interest method over the term of the lease or loan. The Company reviews the aging of its financing receivables to determine past due and delinquent accounts. Credit quality is reviewed at inception and is re-evaluated as needed based on customer-specific circumstances. Receivable balances 60 days to 89 days past due are reviewed and may be placed on nonaccrual status based on customer-specific circumstances. Receivable balances are placed on nonaccrual status upon reaching greater than 89 days past due. Upon receipt of payment on nonaccrual financing receivables, interest income is recognized and accrual of interest is resumed once the account has been made current or the specific circumstances have been resolved.
In accordance with the Company's accounting policy, goodwill will be tested for impairment as of October 31, 2019.
The Company considers the factors listed in ASC 350-20-35-3C for its interim impairment evaluations. In the third quarter of 2018, the Company experienced overall negative financial performance, which resulted in significant forecast changes compared to the prior impairment analysis, along with key personnel changes and a sustained decrease in share price. As a result of these impairment triggering events, the Company performed an interim impairment test of goodwill for its four reporting units during the third quarter of 2018. Based on the results of the impairment testing, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment 
Amortization expense on capitalized software of $8.2 and $8.8 was included in service and software cost of sales for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Amortization expense on capitalized software of $25.1 and $25.6 was included in service and software cost of sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company's total amortization expense, including deferred financing costs, was $35.9 and $38.2 for the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company's total amortization expense, including deferred financing costs, was $109.5 and $114.8 for the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions for suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to make payments or fulfill contractual obligations, the suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. At September 30, 2019, the maximum future payment obligations related to these various guarantees totaled $108.7, of which $26.7 represented standby letters of credit to insurance providers, and no associated liability was recorded. At December 31, 2018, the maximum future payment obligations relative to these various guarantees totaled $135.2, of which $27.5 represented standby letters of credit to insurance providers, and no associated liability was recorded.
DN2020 Plan. As of August 15, 2016, the date of the acquisition of Wincor Nixdorf Aktiengesellschaft (now known as Diebold Nixdorf AG) (the Acquisition), the Company launched a multi-year integration and transformation program, known as DN2020. The Company incurred restructuring charges of $6.0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to this plan.
Strategic Alliance Plan. On November 10, 2016, the Company entered into a strategic alliance with the Inspur Group, a Chinese cloud computing and data center company, to develop, manufacture and distribute Systems solutions in China. The Company incurred $0.1 restructuring charges during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 related to this plan.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $42.4. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding borrowings on the short-term uncommitted lines of credit as of September 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018 was 13.37 percent and 8.80 percent, respectively, and primarily relate to higher interest rate, short-term uncommitted lines of credit in Turkey and Brazil. Short-term uncommitted lines mature in less than one year. The amount available under the short-term uncommitted lines at September 30, 2019 was $34.8.
On May 9, 2017, the Company entered into an incremental amendment to its Credit Agreement (the Incremental Agreement) which reduced the initial term loan B facility (the Term Loan B Facility) of a $1,000.0 U.S. dollar-denominated tranche to $475.0. The reduction was funded using the $250.0 proceeds drawn from the Delayed Draw Term Loan A Facility, a replacement of $70.0 with Term Loan B Facility - Euro and previous principal payments.
On August 30, 2018, the Company entered into a sixth amendment and incremental amendment (the Sixth Amendment) to its Credit Agreement. The Sixth Amendment amended the financial covenants and established a new senior secured incremental term A-1 facility in an aggregate principal amount of $650.0 (Term Loan A-1 Facility) and makes certain other changes to the Credit Agreement. Following the execution of the Sixth Amendment, the Company has executed, and has caused certain of its subsidiaries to execute, certain foreign security and guaranty documents for the benefit of the secured parties under the Credit Agreement that provide for guarantees by, and additional security with respect to the equity interests in and the the stock of certain foreign subsidiaries. 
anniversary of the Sixth Amendment. The Term Loan A-1 Facility is subject to a maximum consolidated net leverage ratio, a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio and certain covenant reset triggers (Covenant Reset Triggers) as described in the Sixth Amendment. Upon the occurrence of any Covenant Reset Trigger, the financial covenant levels will automatically revert to previous financial covenant levels in effect prior to the Sixth Amendment. 
On August 7, 2019, the Company entered into a seventh amendment (the Seventh Amendment) to its Credit Agreement. The Seventh Amendment amends and extends certain of the Term A Loans, Revolving Credit Commitments and Revolving Credit Loans maturing on December 23, 2020 (collectively, the 2020 Facilities), to April 30, 2022, to be effected by an exchange of 2020 Term A Loans, 2020 Revolving Credit Commitments and 2020 Revolving Credit Loans for 2022 Term A Loans, 2022 Revolving Credit Commitments and 2022 Revolving Credit Loans, respectively. 
The Company has $400.0 aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2024 (the 2024 Senior Notes), which are and will be guaranteed by certain of the Company’s existing and future subsidiaries and mature in April 2024.
The debt facilities under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries that are borrowers or guarantors under the Credit Agreement, subject to certain exceptions and permitted liens. 
The Company's financing agreements contain various financial covenants, including net debt to capitalization, net debt to EBITDA and net interest coverage ratio, along with certain negative covenants that, among other things, limit dividends, acquisitions and the use of proceeds from divestitures. As of September 30, 2019, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements.
The DPLTA offered the Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders, at their election, (i) the ability to put their Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary shares to Diebold KGaA in exchange for cash compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share or (ii) to remain Diebold Nixdorf AG minority shareholders and receive a recurring compensation in cash of €2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG ordinary share for each full fiscal year of Diebold Nixdorf AG. The redemption value adjustment includes the updated cash compensation pursuant to the DPLTA. A portion of the proceeds of the Term Loan A-1 Facility were restricted to fund the purchase of the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG not owned by the Company. The Company classified the proceeds set aside to purchase the remaining shares in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
Pension and other post-retirement benefits AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost (refer to note 16).
In 2019, the Company exited and divested certain non-core, non-accretive businesses which resulted in a gain of $8.5 and a loss of $6.6 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively. In the first quarter of 2019, the Company divested its interest in Projective NV, a program and project management services business for financial institutions included in Eurasia Banking operating segment, for $4.2 in proceeds, net of cash transferred resulting in a loss of $2.8. During the first quarter, the Company also recorded a loss of $4.1 on the divestiture of its Venezuela business included in the Americas Banking operating segment and a gain of $3.5 related to the Company’s exit activities of certain entities in the Netherlands included in the Retail operating segment. During the second quarter of 2019, the Company identified an immaterial error in the first quarter of 2019 for the loss (gain) on sale of assets, net related to this divestiture. Management determined this error was not material to the prior period and recorded the correction in the three months ended June 30, 2019 resulting in a $9.5 charge in the loss (gain) on the sale of assets, net. 
In the second quarter of 2019, the Company divested its remaining SecurCash B.V entity included in the Eurasia Banking operating segment resulting in a loss of $1.1. In the third quarter of 2019, the Company divested a Eurasia banking business for proceeds of $0.6 resulting in a Eurasia Banking operating segment resulting in a loss of $0.1. Additionally during the third quarter of 2019, the Company's interest in Kony was sold for cash proceeds of $21.3. The Company's carrying value in Kony was $14.0, resulting in a gain of $7.3.
During the first six months of 2019, the Company acquired the remaining shares of Diebold Nixdorf AG for $88.6. In the first quarter of 2018, the Company acquired the remaining portion of its noncontrolling interest in its China operations for $5.8 in the aggregate.
The Company has qualified retirement plans covering certain U.S. employees that have been closed to new participants since 2003 and frozen since December 2013. Plans that cover salaried employees provide retirement benefits based on an employee’s compensation during the ten years before the date of the plan freeze or the date of the employee's actual separation from service, if earlier. The Company’s funding policy for salaried plans is to contribute annually based on actuarial projections and applicable regulations. Plans covering hourly employees generally provide benefits of stated amounts for each year of service. The Company’s funding policy for hourly plans is to make at least the minimum annual contributions required by applicable regulations.
The Company has non-qualified pension plans to provide supplemental retirement benefits to certain officers, which have also been frozen since December 2013. Benefits are payable at retirement based upon a percentage of the participant’s compensation, as defined. In addition to providing retirement benefits, the Company provides post-employment healthcare and life insurance benefits (referred to as other benefits) for certain retired employees. Retired eligible employees in the United States may be entitled to these benefits based upon years of service with the Company, age at retirement and collective bargaining agreements. There are no plan assets and the Company funds the benefits as the claims are paid. The post-employment benefit obligation was determined by application of the terms of medical and life insurance plans together with relevant actuarial assumptions and healthcare cost trend rates.
During the third quarter of 2019, the Company identified a new non-U.S. benefit obligation in Germany. As a result, the obligation was measured and a liability in the amount of $6.6 was recorded on the balance sheet, with a corresponding charge to the statement of operations.
There have been no significant changes to the expected 2019 plan year contribution amounts previously disclosed. For the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, contributions of $30.9 and $29.2, respectively, were made to the qualified and non-qualified pension plans. The Company received a reimbursement of $12.2 for certain benefits paid from its trustee in June 2019. In March 2018, the Company received a $13.8 reimbursement for certain benefits paid from its trustee. 
The Company is exposed to certain risks arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Company principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities. The Company manages economic risks, including interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, through the use of derivative financial instruments. Specifically, the Company enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business or financing activities. The Company’s derivative foreign currency instruments are used to manage differences in the amount of the Company’s known or expected cash receipts and cash payments principally related to the Company’s non-functional currency assets and liabilities. The Company's interest rate derivatives are used to manage the differences in amount due to variable-rate interest rate borrowings.
Cash Flow Hedges The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements. Amounts reported in AOCI related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable-rate debt. The Company estimates that a minimal amount will be reclassified as a decrease to interest expense over the next year.
In September 2019, the Company entered into multiple pay-fixed receive-variable interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $500.0. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in AOCI and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings.
The Company has an interest rate swap for a nominal sum of €50.0, which was entered into in May 2010, with a ten-year term from October 1, 2010 until September 30, 2020. The interest rate swap is not designated and changes in the fair value of non-designated interest rate swap agreements are recognized in miscellaneous, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Company recognized $0.5 and $1.5 in interest expense relating to the interest rate swap for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively.
The Company uses the end of period when determining the timing of transfers between levels. During each of the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, there were no transfers between levels. 
At September 30, 2019, the Company had purchase commitments due within one year totaling $0.1 for materials and services through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices. The Company guarantees a fixed cost of certain products used in production to its China strategic partners.
The Company has challenged multiple customs rulings in Thailand seeking to retroactively collect customs duties on previous imports of automated teller machines (ATMs). In August 2017 and March 2019, the Supreme Court of Thailand ruled in the Company's favor in two of the matters, finding that Thailand customs' attempt to collect duties for importation of ATMs was improper. The surviving matters remain at various stages of the appeals process and the Company will use the Supreme Court's decisions in support of its position in those matters. Management remains confident that the Company has a valid legal position in these appeals. Accordingly, the Company does not have any amount accrued for this contingency.
Diebold KGaA is a party to two separate appraisal proceedings (Spruchverfahren) in connection with the purchase of all shares in its former listed subsidiary, Diebold Nixdorf AG. Both proceedings are pending at the same Chamber for Commercial Matters (Kammer für Handelssachen) at the District Court (Landgericht) of Dortmund (Germany). The first appraisal proceeding relates to the DPLTA entered into by Diebold KGaA and former Diebold Nixdorf AG, which became effective on February 17, 2017. The DPLTA appraisal proceeding was filed by minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG challenging the adequacy of both the cash 
exit compensation of €55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share (of which 6,939,451 shares were then outstanding) and the annual recurring compensation of €2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share offered in connection with the DPLTA.
The second appraisal proceeding relates to the cash merger squeeze-out of minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG in 2019. The squeeze-out appraisal proceeding was filed by minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG challenging the adequacy of the cash exit compensation of €54.80 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share (of which 1,367,644 shares were then outstanding) in connection with the merger squeeze-out. 
In both appraisal proceedings, a court ruling would apply to all Diebold Nixdorf AG shares outstanding at the time when the DPLTA or the merger squeeze-out, respectively, became effective. Any cash compensation received by former Diebold Nixdorf AG shareholders in connection with the merger squeeze-out would be netted with any higher cash compensation such shareholder may still claim in connection with the DPLTA appraisal proceeding. While the Company believes that the compensation offered in connection with the DPLTA and the merger squeeze-out was in both cases fair, it notes that German courts often adjudicate increases of the cash compensation to plaintiffs in varying amounts in connection with German appraisal proceedings. Therefore, the Company cannot rule out that the first instance court or an appellate court may increase the cash compensation also in these appraisal proceedings. The Company, however, is convinced that its defense in both appraisal proceedings which are still at preliminary stages is supported by strong sets of facts and the Company will continue to vigorously defend itself in these matters.
In July and August 2019, shareholders filed putative class action lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and the Northern District of Ohio. The lawsuits collectively assert that the Company and three former officers made material misstatements regarding the Company’s business and operations, causing the Company’s common stock to be overvalued during from February 14, 2017 to August 1, 2018. The Company anticipates that these lawsuits, along with any other potential lawsuits addressing the same topic, will be consolidated into one action. The Company denies any liability, believes the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself in these matters.
Net non-routine expense consists of items that the Company has determined are non-routine in nature and not allocated to the reportable operating segments. Net non-routine expense of $23.5 and $98.4 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019, respectively, primarily consisted of purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $22.8 and $71.8, respectively, and the loss (gain) on sale of assets, net. Net non-routine expense of $175.9 and $342.8 for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018, respectively, was primarily due to goodwill impairment charges of $134.4 and $217.5, respectively, acquisition integration expenses of $10.3 and $40.0, respectively, primarily within selling and administrative expense, and purchase accounting pre-tax charges for amortization of acquired intangibles of $28.1 and $88.6, respectively. 
Contract assets are minimal for the periods presented. The amount of revenue recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods, mainly due to the changes in the estimate of variable consideration and contract modifications was de minimis. There have been $0.4 and $9.7 during the three months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $3.3 and $20.6 during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively, of impairment losses recognized as bad debt related to receivables or contract assets arising from the Company's contracts with customers.
As of January 1, 2019, the Company had $378.2 of unrecognized deferred revenue constituting the remaining performance obligations that are either unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied). During the nine months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recognized revenue of $247.9 related to the Company's deferred revenue balance at January 1, 2019.
Contract assets are the rights to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the Company has transferred to a customer when that right is conditional on something other than the passage of time. Contract assets of the Company primarily relate to the Company's rights to consideration for goods shipped and services provided but not contractually billable at the reporting date.
The contract assets are reclassified into the receivables balance when the rights to receive payment become unconditional. Contract liabilities are recorded for any services billed to customers and not yet recognizable if the contract period has commenced or for the amount collected from customers in advance of the contract period commencing. In addition, contract liabilities are recorded as advanced payments for products and other deliverables that are billed to and collected from customers prior to revenue being recognizable.
As of September 30, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $1,700. The Company generally expects to recognize revenue on the remaining performance obligations over the next twelve months. The Company enters into service agreements with cancellable terms after a certain period without penalty. Unsatisfied obligations reflect only the obligation during the initial term. The Company applies the practical expedient in ASC paragraph 606-10-50-14 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original expected durations of one year or less. 
Each guarantor subsidiary is 100 percent owned by the Parent Company at the date of each balance sheet presented. The 2024 Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by each guarantor subsidiary. The guarantees of the guarantor subsidiaries are subject to release in limited circumstances only upon the occurrence of certain conditions. Each entity in the consolidating financial information follows the same accounting policies as described in the condensed consolidated financial statements, except for the use by the Parent Company and the guarantor subsidiaries of the equity method of accounting to reflect ownership interests in subsidiaries which are eliminated upon consolidation. Changes in intercompany receivables and payables related to operations, such as intercompany sales or service charges, are included in cash flows from operating activities. Intercompany transactions reported as investing or financing activities include the sale of capital stock of various subsidiaries, loans and other capital transactions between members of the consolidated group. 
The Company also reclassified certain assets and liabilities for inclusion of an additional wholly-owned domestic subsidiary from its non-guarantor subsidiaries to the combined guarantor subsidiaries as a result of changes included in the Sixth Amendment. 
For more information regarding legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3 of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. There have been no material developments with respect to the legal proceedings reported in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018.
