For further information, refer to the audited consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the “2018 Form 10-K”).
As a result of the Reorganization that occurred in the third quarter 2018, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, as the chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) began assessing operating profits and identified assets at the enterprise level for resource allocations.
The CODM assessed operating profits and identified assets for the Connected Solutions and RF Solutions segments for resource allocations.
In order to understand the Company’s financial results, it is necessary to understand the impact on gross profit of the revenue mix between them.
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and reflect all adjustments of a normal recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the interim period financial statements.
The condensed consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2018 is derived from the audited financial statements as of December 31, 2018.
The unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
The significant accounting policies followed by the Company are set forth within the 2018 Form 10-K.
In addition, the Company reaffirms the use of estimates in the preparation of the financial statements as set forth in the 2018 Form 10-K.
The functional currency for the Company’s foreign operations is predominantly the applicable local currency.
In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases (“Topic 842”), which amends existing guidance to require lessees to recognize assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for the rights and obligations created by long-term leases and to disclose additional quantitative and qualitative information about leasing arrangements.
The Company completed this project plan, in which it analyzed the ASU's impact on its leases, surveyed the Company's key employees, assessed the portfolio of leases, and established a future lease process to keep the lease accounting portfolio up to date.
The Company also evaluated the key policy elections and considerations under the standard and completed the internal policy documentation to address the new standard requirements.The following information should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2018 contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 (the “2018 Form 10-K”).
Our first quarter 2019 revenues of $20.6 million decreased by $1.1 million or 5.3% compared to revenues of $21.7 million for the same period in 2018.
Revenues decreased for the antenna product line by $2.7 million or 15.1% and increased for the test and measurement product line by $1.5 million or 38.4% compared to the first quarter 2018.
Revenues decreased for the antenna product line due to lower revenues with Enterprise Wi-Fi applications and increased for the test and measurement due to sales of 5G products.
The gross profit of $8.7 million, increased by $0.8 million, or 10.1% compared to gross profit of $7.9M for the same period in 2018, due to a higher mix of test and measurement product revenues and due to an increase in the gross margin percentage for antenna products.We are the subject of various pending or threatened legal actions in the ordinary course of our business.