fls.txt



item1.txt
The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer.
For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices.
Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two- and three-dimensional graphic products.
Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges.
Payments are generally due within 30 to 90 days of completion of the performance obligation and invoicing; therefore, payments do not contain significant financing components.
On July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09.
“Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
This approach was applied to contracts that were not completed as of June 30, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning July 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for the prior period.
The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
The Company elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the new guidance to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, lease classification, and initial direct costs.
The Company’s corporate administration activities are reported in the Corporate and Eliminations line item.


item2.txt
Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including this section.
Also contributing to the period-over-period change in operating income is a one-time adjustment to the Company’s paid-time-off policy in fiscal 2019 which resulted in a favorable pre-tax adjustment to earnings of $1.2 million with no comparable event in fiscal 2020.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
When the $4.8 million gain is removed from fiscal 2020 results, there was a $1.3 million or 11.1% increase in selling and administrative expenses.
The Lighting Segment first quarter fiscal 2019 operating income of $9,159,000 increased $5.3 million from operating income of $3,850,000 in the same period of fiscal 2019 primarily due to the $4.8million gain on the sale of its New Windsor, New York facility.
When the impact of $4.8 million gain is removed from fiscal 2020 results along with the restructuring and plant closure costs in both fiscal years, fiscal 2020 Non-GAAP adjusted operating income of $4,510,000 was $70,000 higher than fiscal 2019 Non-GAAP adjusted operating income of $4,440,000.
Growth was realized across three product market applications; petroleum, other retail printed graphics, and digital signage.
The gross profit or loss relates to the elimination of intercompany profit in inventory.
The Company also incurred $82,000 expense related to net foreign currency transaction losses from transactions with its customer and suppliers through its Mexican subsidiary.
The Company reported a net income of $4,475,000 in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to net income of $1,749,000 in the same period of the prior year.
This $4.2 million increase in net cash flows from operating activities is the result the Company’s strategy to aggressively manage its working capital which includes the reduction of the accounts receivable days sales outstanding (DSO), increasing inventory turns while simultaneously reducing inventory levels, and effectively managing the Company’s supply chain which includes partnering with its suppliers to find the appropriate service level while effectively managing payment terms.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 5.
Item 5.02 -- Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.


