fls.txt
These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the following: the impact of competitive products and services; product and pricing demands, and market acceptance risks; potential costs associated with litigation and regulatory compliance; the Company’s ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet customers’ needs; additional restructuring costs or a failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future cost reduction actions; failure to realize all of the anticipated benefits from initiatives to increase our productivity, efficiency and cash flow and to reduce costs; inventory management decisions and sourcing practices; compliance with financial and other restrictive covenants in debt agreements; information technology security threats and computer crime; reliance on key customers; financial difficulties experienced by customers; the cyclical and seasonal nature of our business; the adequacy of reserves and allowances for doubtful accounts; fluctuations in operating results or costs whether as a result of uncertainties inherent in tax and accounting matters or otherwise; failure of an acquisition or acquired company to achieve its plans or objectives generally; unexpected difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; the ability to retain key employees, including key employees of acquired businesses; unfavorable economic and market conditions; the results of asset impairment assessments; the ability to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting; the ability to remediate any material witnesses in internal control over financial reporting; and the other risk factors that are identified herein.


item1.txt
Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) are discussed below.
Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer.
For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices.
Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
The Company disaggregates the revenue from contracts with customers by the timing of revenue recognition because the Company believes it best depicts the nature, amount, and timing of our revenue and cash flows.
The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two and three dimensional graphic products.
Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges.
On  July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09.
“Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning after  December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.
The implementation team has completed a qualitative assessment of the Company’s active leases and is compiling related data in a central repository.


item2.txt
We are in the business of designing, manufacturing and marketing lighting, graphics and technology solutions for both indoor and outdoor applications.
Adjusted fiscal 2019 second quarter operating income of $1.5 million decreased $3.1 million or 66% from adjusted fiscal 2018 operating income of $4.6 million.
Both fiscal years recorded goodwill impairment charges in the Lighting Segment.
There was a $20.2 million goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2019 and a $28 million goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2018.
Also contributing to the period-over-period results is a one-time adjustment to the Company’s paid-time-off policy in fiscal 2019 which resulted in a favorable pre-tax adjustment to earnings of $1.2 million.
The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share.
Adjusted operating income, net income and earnings per share, which exclude the impact of goodwill impairment, severance costs, transition and re-alignment costs, and restructuring and plant closure costs, are non-GAAP financial measures.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
Most of the increase in sales is from growth in sales to the Petroleum market.
Gross profit as a percentage of segment net sales (customer plus inter-segment net sales) decreased from 25% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to 19% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The gross (loss) profit relates to the change in the intercompany profit in inventory elimination.
The $5,104,000 income tax benefit in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 represents a consolidated effective tax rate of 24.4%, which is slightly higher than the expected annual rate of 23% due to the goodwill impairment.


item4.txt



part2.txt
During the last twelve months, the sales price of our common stock, as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, declined from a high of $8.69 in February 2018 to a low of $3.17 on January 30, 2019.
Most recently, on February 1, 2019, the market price of our common stock, as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, closed at a price of $3.20 per share.


