fls.txt
You are cautioned to not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.


item1.txt
Significant changes to our accounting policies as a result of adopting ASU-2014-09 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (Topic 606) are discussed below.
Control is generally transferred at time of shipment when title and risk of ownership passes to the customer.
For customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price and any discounts to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices.
Payment terms are typically within 30 to 90 days from the shipping date, depending on our terms with the customer.
Installation is a separate performance obligation, except for our digital signage products.
The table presents a reconciliation of the disaggregation by reportable segments.
Legacy products include lighting fixtures utilizing light sources other than LED technology and printed two and three dimensional graphic products.
Turnkey services and other includes installation services along with shipping and handling charges.
On  July 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09.
“Revenue from Contracts with Customers,” (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective adoption method which requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings.
This approach was applied to contracts that were not completed as of  June 30, 2018.
The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning after  December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted.
On  October 29, 2018, The Company announced that it will permanently close its New Windsor, New York manufacturing facility.
Production will be transferred to the Company’s Erlanger, Kentucky and Blue Ash, Ohio facilities, also included in the Lighting Segment.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation within the cash flows from operating activities section and cash flows from financing activities section of the statement of cash flows.
These reclassifications have no impact on net income or earnings per share.


item2.txt
Fiscal 2019 first quarter net sales of $84,957,000 decreased $2.5 million or 2.9% as compared to first quarter fiscal 2018.
Adjusted fiscal 2019 operating income of $3.5 million (which reflects the removal of plant closure costs) increased 10.6% from adjusted fiscal 2018 operating income of $3.2 (which reflects the removal of the goodwill impairment).
Also contributing to the period-over-period results is a one-time adjustment to the Company’s paid-time-off policy in fiscal 2019 which resulted in a favorable pre-tax adjustment to earnings of $1.2 million.
On October 29, 2018, The Company announced that it will permanently close its New Windsor, New York manufacturing facility.
The facility manufactures indoor lighting products and is included in the results of the Lighting Segment.
Production will be transferred to the Company’s Erlanger, Kentucky and Blue Ash, Ohio facilities, also included in the Lighting Segment.
The closure is part of ongoing actions to align the Company’s supply chain to more cost effectively serve the changing requirements of the lighting market.
The transfer of production is expected to be completed by June 30, 2019.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
There continues to be a reduction in the Company’s traditional lighting sales (metal halide and fluorescent light sources) as customers convert from traditional lighting to light fixtures having solid-state LED technology.


item4.txt



part2.txt
31.1   Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) 32.1   Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document


