The interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information, and rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
Sales are recorded net of estimated returns, rebates and discounts.
The Company provides product warranties and certain post-shipment service, support and maintenance of certain solid state LED video screens.
Installation revenue is recognized when the products have been fully installed.
The Company is not always responsible for installation of products it sells and has no post-installation responsibilities, other than normal warranties.
Revenue from the management of media content and digital hardware related to active digital signage is recognized evenly over the service period with the customer.
Shipping and handling revenue coincides with the recognition of revenue from sale of the product.
Revenue is recognized upon the Company’s complete performance at the location, which may include a site survey, graphics products, lighting products, and installation of products.
The selling price assigned to each site is based upon an agreed upon price between the Company and its customer and reflects the estimated selling price for that site relative to the selling price for sites with similar image requirements.Fiscal 2018 third quarter net sales of $78,843,000 increased $0.7 million or 0.9% as compared to third quarter fiscal 2017 net sales of $78,156,000.
The Company acquired Atlas on February 21, 2017.
Comparable fiscal 2018 net sales excluding net sales from Atlas decreased by $19.8 million or 8.2% compared to fiscal 2017 net sales.
The Company believes it is appropriate to evaluate its performance after making adjustments to the as-reported U.S. GAAP operating income, net income, and earnings per share.
Adjusted operating income, net income and earnings per share, which exclude the impact of a goodwill and intangible asset impairment, a tax charge related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets, restructuring and plant closure costs, acquisition deal costs, a fair market value inventory adjustment, and other severance costs, are non-GAAP financial measures.
We believe that these adjusted supplemental measures are useful in assessing the operating performance of our business.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
The reconciliation of reported net income and earnings per share to adjusted net income and earnings per share may not agree due to rounding differences and due to the difference between basic and dilutive weighted average shares outstanding in the computation of earnings per share.
The Lighting Segment’s net sales of light fixtures having solid-state LED technology totaled $51.2 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2018, representing a $6.3 million or 14.0% increase from fiscal 2017 third quarter net sales of solid-state LED light fixtures of $44.9 million.