fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
The results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2019, or any future period.
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company did not have any finance leases.
The operating lease ROU asset also includes any lease payments made prior to lease commencement and excludes lease incentives.
The Company does not separate non-lease components from lease components for all underlying classes of assets.
As of March 31, 2019, the Company had 382 investments in unrealized loss positions.
The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates.
There were no impairment charges recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2019.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes.
For the three months ended March 31, 2019, there were no material impairment charges or adjustments resulting from observable price changes for equity investments without readily determinable fair value.
Notes receivable are generally classified as Level 3 asset due to the lack of observable inputs to determine fair value.
The carrying value of a contract manufacturer deposit of $47.6 million, reported within other long-term assets, in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets approximates its fair value as of March 31, 2019.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.
Juniper designs, develops, and sells products and services for high-performance networks to enable customers to build scalable, reliable, secure and cost-effective networks for their businesses, while achieving agility and improved operating efficiency through automation.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue.
We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.


