fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
Identify the performance obligations in the contract.
Certain software licenses and related post-contract support are combined into a single performance obligation when the maintenance updates are critical to the continued functionality of the software.
Customer invoices are generally due within 30 to 90 days after issuance.
Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract.
For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates the transaction price to the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis.
Recognize revenue when or as the Company satisfies a performance obligation.
Certain software licenses combined with post-contract support are recognized over time on a ratable basis over the term of the license.
Revenue for maintenance and software post-contract support is recognized over time on a ratable basis over the contract term.
These costs are deferred and then amortized over a period of benefit which is typically over the term of the customer contracts as initial commission rates and renewal rates are the same.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had 539 investments in unrealized loss positions.
The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair value are measured at fair value, when they are deemed to be impaired or when there is an adjustment from observable price changes.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
The following discussion is based upon our unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part 1, Item I, of this Report, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.
We anticipate that our increased focus on software business models will result in an increase in software revenues as a percentage of total revenues over time.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
In fiscal year 2015, our margins increased compared to fiscal year 2014, as a result of higher restructuring and other charges recorded in 2014 but not in 2015, in connection with the restructuring plan we initiated in the first quarter of 2014.
Further, we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue.
We expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
As a result of changes in the economy, capital spending or the building of network capacity in excess of demand, all of which have in the past particularly affected telecommunications service providers, spending on IP infrastructure can vary, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.


