The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
Accordingly, they do not include all information and footnotes required by U.S. GAAP for complete financial statements.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies, for additional disclosures required upon adopting the standard.
As of September 30, 2019, the Company did not have any finance leases.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized on the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities.
Lease costs are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.