fls.txt



item1.txt
The unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the “Company” or “Juniper”) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for interim financial information.
The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2018 has been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements at that date.
Except for the change in certain policies upon adoption of the accounting standards described below, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies, compared to the accounting policies described in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of the Form 10-K.
See Note 15, Commitment and Contingencies, for additional disclosures required upon adopting the standard.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company did not have any finance leases.
Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized on the commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
Variable lease payments primarily include reimbursements of costs incurred by lessors for common area maintenance and utilities.
The Company does not separate non-lease components from lease components for all underlying classes of assets.
On April 1, 2019, the Company acquired 100% ownership of Mist Systems, Inc. (“Mist”) for $359.2 million.
The goodwill recognized in connection with the acquisition is primarily attributable to anticipated synergies from future growth and will not be deductible for income tax purposes.
The Company's Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of this business combination from the date of acquisition.
Pro forma results of operations for this acquisition have not been presented, as the financial impact to the Company's consolidated results of operations is not material.
As of June 30, 2019, the Company had 271 investments in unrealized loss positions.
The gross unrealized losses related to these investments were primarily due to changes in market interest rates.
Balance relates to restricted investments measured at fair value related to the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by applicable law.
In making these decisions, we consider various factors, including contractual obligations, customer satisfaction, competition, internal and external financial targets and expectations, and financial planning objectives.
Each of these decisions has some impact on the financial results for any given period.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Investments in our securities involve significant risks.
We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time.
For example, in fiscal year 2018, our margins decreased as compared to fiscal year 2017, primarily due to lower net revenues and product mix.
In fiscal year 2016, our margins decreased compared to fiscal year 2015, primarily due to elevated pricing pressure and product mix.
Further, while we will continue to remain diligent in our long-term financial objective to increase revenue and operating margins and manage our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, we expect that our margins will vary with our ability to achieve these goals.
We can provide no assurance that we will be able to achieve all or any of the goals of these plans or meet our announced expectations, in whole or in part, or that our plans will have the intended effect of improving our margins on the expected timeline, or at all.
A limited number of our customers comprise a material portion of our revenues and any changes in the way they purchase products and services from us could affect our business.
A material portion of our net revenues, across each customer vertical, depends on sales to a limited number of customers and distribution partners.
Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions.
A customer's decision to purchase certain of our products, particularly new products, involves a significant commitment of its resources and a lengthy evaluation and product qualification process.
Timing of deployment can vary widely and depends on the skill set of the customer, the size of the network deployment, the complexity of the customer's network environment, and the degree of hardware and operating system configuration necessary to deploy the products.


