fls.txt



item1.txt
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 270, for interim financial information and in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X.
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
Restricted cash was included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts shown in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the six months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
Topic 606 was adopted by the Company effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
The Company reflected the impact of the changes at transition with a cumulative increase of approximately $2,104 million to the opening balance of retained earnings.
2016-16 (“ASU 2016-16”), Intra-Equity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (Topic 740), which is intended to eliminate diversity in practice and provide a more accurate depiction of the tax consequences on intercompany asset transfers (excluding inventory).
ASU 2016-02 will replace most existing lease accounting guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations.
The Company will adopt ASU 2016-02 when effective in the first quarter of fiscal year 2020.
2017-04 (“ASU 2017-04”), Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (Topic 350), which is intended to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill.
ASU 2017-04 eliminates Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test requiring the assessment of fair value of individual assets and liabilities of a reporting unit to measure goodwill impairments.
Upon adoption of this new standard, goodwill impairments will be the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value exceeds its fair value.


item2.txt
We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our financial statements and the accompanying notes to the financial statements.
Our solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage and secure applications across mobile, cloud, distributed and mainframe platforms.
Our mission is to eliminate the barriers between ideas and business outcomes.
To achieve this, we have built a portfolio of solutions that enable customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments.
Customers are transforming their businesses to better manage the market demands for speed, exceptional customer experience and rich analytics.
We believe this journey, broadly referred to as digital transformation, is fueled by software.
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways.
This is critical as customers focus on their end users’ experiences on their apps and the underlying transactions that traverse their heterogeneous environments.
CA is one of the few companies positioned to deliver solutions that span mobile, cloud, open systems and mainframe environments.
This hybrid cloud capability helps customers remove the barriers between ideas and business outcomes.
We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa.
Our strong market position enables our investment in development, innovation and support of the mainframe platform to be among the largest in the industry, which sustains ongoing customer commitment to our Mainframe Solutions.
Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Company has evaluated the effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).


part2.txt
Item 1.


