fls.txt



item1.txt
The Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), as defined in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 270, for interim financial information and in accordance with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X.
All such adjustments are of a normal, recurring nature.
Restricted cash was included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period amounts shown in the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017.
Topic 606 was adopted by the Company effective April 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
As a result of adopting Topic 606, the Company now recognizes revenue for the license component of all its on-premise software arrangements at the point-in-time control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract.
The Company reflected the impact of the changes at transition with a cumulative increase of approximately $2,104 million to the opening balance of retained earnings.
Refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for policies in accordance with Topic 605.
2016-16 (“ASU 2016-16”), Intra-Equity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (Topic 740), which is intended to eliminate diversity in practice and provide a more accurate depiction of the tax consequences on intercompany asset transfers (excluding inventory).
ASU 2016-02 will replace most existing lease accounting guidance in GAAP when it becomes effective.
The new standard states that a lessee will recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term.
Leases will be classified as either finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern of expense recognition in the consolidated statements of operations.
In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No.
2017-04 (“ASU 2017-04”), Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (Topic 350), which is intended to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill.


item2.txt
We do not intend to update these forward-looking statements, except as otherwise required by law.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.
Our solutions enable customers to plan, develop, automate, manage and secure applications across mobile, cloud, distributed and mainframe platforms.
To achieve this, we have built a portfolio of solutions that enable customers to leverage the benefits of agility, automation, insights and security in managing business processes and technology investments.
Customers are transforming their businesses to better manage the market demands for speed, exceptional customer experience and rich analytics.
We believe this journey, broadly referred to as digital transformation, is fueled by software.
Our segments strengthen each other in several ways.
This is critical as customers focus on their end users’ experiences on their apps and the underlying transactions that traverse their heterogeneous environments.
CA is one of the few companies positioned to deliver solutions that span mobile, cloud, open systems and mainframe environments.
This hybrid cloud capability helps customers remove the barriers between ideas and business outcomes.
We are able to bidirectionally leverage our core strengths and development efforts in our products within the Enterprise Solutions segment to bring new innovations to the Mainframe Solutions segment and vice versa.
Our strong market position enables our investment in development, innovation and support of the mainframe platform to be among the largest in the industry, which sustains ongoing customer commitment to our Mainframe Solutions.
Our Services segment leverages our expertise across our Mainframe Solutions and Enterprise Solutions segments and helps customers deploy and maintain our solutions.
•Agile Planning helps customers transform their development practices from traditional to modern agile methodologies.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on that evaluation, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this quarterly report.


part2.txt
Item 1.


