All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation.
Sales returns and allowances are estimated based on historical experience.All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
Item 1A "Risk Factors" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2018.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
During the nine months ended September 30, 2018, seven more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile, echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array, audio distribution over local area networks, and USB to Bluetooth audio bridging were issued to us.
We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines.An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of September 30, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.Although we are currently in compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule, there can be no assurance that our common stock will continue to satisfy this rule.