fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, and the cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the SEC.
Accordingly, each quarter-end deferral of revenue and associated cost of goods sold were calculated and recorded based upon the actual channel inventory reported at quarter-end.
Further, with respect to distributors and other channel partners not reporting the channel inventory, the revenue and associated cost of goods sold were deferred until we received payment for the product sales made to such distributors or channel partners.
The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation.
Revenue recognized during the quarter ended March 31, 2018 for equipment sales was $7,109 and for software and licenses was $180.
Sales returns and allowances are estimated based on historical experience.
Frequently, the Company receives orders with multiple delivery dates that may extend across reporting periods.
The Company invoices the customer for each delivery upon shipment and recognizes revenues in accordance with delivery terms.
Although payment terms vary, distributors typically pay within 45 days of invoicing and dealers pay within 30 days of invoicing.
As scheduled delivery dates are within one year, revenue allocated to future shipments of partially completed contracts are not disclosed.


item2.txt
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
We derive most of our revenue from professional audio conferencing products by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and networked audio and video streaming.
During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we were awarded four more patents related to video synchronization, speech technology, integrated microphone array and ceiling or wall tile and echo cancellation with beamforming microphone array.
We introduced a new ceiling microphone array product line and made improvements to our VIEW Pro and Converge Pro 2 product lines.
Overall revenue declined in the three months ended March 31, 2018 when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, with declines seen in all product categories.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 56% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 from 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2017.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.
The audio-visual products market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology.
Our revenues in the near term may also be adversely affected by the resignation of a large US distributor in June 2018.
Our strength in professional audio visual space is largely due to our industry leading conferencing technologies and the full suite of professional microphone products, especially Beamforming Microphone Arrays.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of March 31, 2018 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.
To address the material weakness, management is working with our third party internal controls consultant to assist with the implementation of a remediation plan which will supplement the existing controls.


part2.txt
Item 1.
Item 1A.


