fls.txt
All forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date hereof and are based on information available to us as of such date.


item1.txt
1. Business Description, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies ClearOne, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, “ClearOne” or the “Company”), is a global market leader enabling conferencing, collaboration, and AV streaming solutions for voice and visual communications.
All significant inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
These accompanying interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and are not audited.
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair presentation of our financial position as of June 30, 2019 and December 31, 2018, the results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018, and the cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2019 and 2018.
These interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed with the SEC.
As most of our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use our incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments.
Our lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned.
Long-term inventory represents inventory held in excess of our current (next 12 months) requirements based on our recent sales and forecasted level of sales.


item2.txt
We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
All subsequent forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements.
We derive a major portion of our revenue from audio conferencing products and microphones by promoting our products in the professional audio-visual channel.
We have extended our total addressable market from the installed audio conferencing market to adjacent complementary markets – microphones, video collaboration and AV networking.
We also introduced COLLABORATE® Space to our growing family of collaboration solutions.
Users can meet immediately or schedule a meeting and access a full suite of collaboration features, including file sharing, whiteboarding, annotation, chat, and meeting minutes.
Overall revenue declined in the second quarter of 2019 when compared to the second quarter of 2018, with declines seen in all product categories except video.
Our gross profit margin decreased marginally to 46% during the second quarter of 2019 from 47% for the second quarter of 2018.
Net loss decreased marginally from $2.2 million in the second quarter of 2018 to $2.1 million in the second quarter of 2019.
The decrease in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced operating expenses offset by reduced gross profit and tax benefit.
We are inappropriately being forced to compete against our own patented technology.
Our gross profit margin decreased to 44% during the first six months of 2019 from 52% during the same six months in 2018.
The increase in net loss in 2019 was primarily due to reduced tax benefit and gross profit partially offset by reduced operating expenses.
We believe the recent decision by the U.S. District Court in August granting our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent our competitor from manufacturing, marketing, and selling its competing ceiling microphone array in an infringing configuration is an incredibly valuable ruling for ClearOne and its business.
We operate in a very dynamic and highly competitive industry which is dominated on the one hand by a few players with respect to certain products like traditional video conferencing appliances while on the other influenced heavily by a fragmented reseller market consisting of numerous regional and local players.


item4.txt
An evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) as of June 30, 2019 was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Principal Financial and Accounting Officer.


part2.txt
Item 1.
9,813,806 (the “’806 Patent”).
Shure has opposed the petition, and a decision by the Patent Trial and Appeal Board whether to institute inter partes review is expected by August 20, 2019.


