fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The July 28, 2018 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
However, we believe that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly the consolidated balance sheet as of January 26, 2019; the results of operations and the statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; the statements of cash flows for the first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018; and the statements of equity for the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, as applicable, have been made.
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.
The underlying principle of ASC 606 is to recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services at an amount that reflects the consideration that is expected to be received in exchange for those goods or services.
We enter into contracts with customers that can include various combinations of products and services which are generally distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
As a result, our contracts may contain multiple performance obligations.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
Within total revenue, product revenue increased by 6% and service revenue was flat.
In the second quarter of fiscal 2019, on October 28, 2018, we completed the sale of our SPVSS business.
These increases reflect broad strength across several countries within these segments.
From a product category perspective, total product revenue, not including SPVSS products in the prior year period, increased 9% year over year.
Total revenue increased 6%, with product revenue increasing 8% and service revenue increasing 2%.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 28, 2018.
The global macroeconomic environment has been challenging and inconsistent.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.


