fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company’s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the nine months ended April 28, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Adoption of this standard resulted in a decrease of $45 million to retained earnings due to the reclassification from AOCI to retained earnings.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
Across networking, security, collaboration and the cloud, our evolving intent-based technologies are constantly learning and adapting to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
We remain focused on accelerating innovation across our portfolio, and we believe that we have made continued progress on our strategic priorities.
These increases reflect broad strength across several countries within these segments.
Total revenue increased 2%, with product revenue increasing 1% and service revenue increasing 2%.
Total gross margin decreased by 1.0 percentage points due to unfavorable impacts from pricing and a $127 million legal and indemnification settlement charge, partially offset by productivity benefits and favorable product mix.
We had a net loss of $3.7 billion and a net loss per share of $0.76, primarily due to the $11.1 billion provisional tax expense related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), comprised of $8.9 billion of U.S. transition tax, $1.2 billion of foreign withholding tax, and $1.0 billion of net deferred tax assets re-measurement.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Fixed Income Securities We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
SSL SSL Services, LLC (“SSL”) has asserted claims for patent infringement against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
SSL alleges that our AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
SSL seeks money damages from us.
On January 19, 2016, HP Inc. filed a counterclaim for breach of contract simultaneously with its answer to the amended complaint.
On January 8, 2018, the court continued the trial date from March 12, 2018 to June 11, 2018.


