fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The July 27, 2019 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
However, we believe that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to these investments, if any, are presented as a separate component from our equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The share of earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
We have evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
ASC 842 requires adoption using the modified retrospective approach, with the option of applying the requirements of the standard either i) retrospectively to each prior comparative reporting period presented, or ii) retrospectively at the beginning of the period of adoption.
We use incremental borrowing rates based on information available at the commencement date to determine the present value of our lease payments.
As a lessor, we determine if an arrangement is a lease at inception.
We provide leasing arrangements for our equipment to certain qualified customers.
Our lease portfolio primarily consists of sales-type leases.


item2.txt
Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984.
This will enable us to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital business.
Within total revenue, product revenue was flat and service revenue increased by 3%.
Total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased 2% not including revenue from the SPVSS business in the prior year period.
Total gross margin increased by 2.0 percentage points, driven by productivity improvements and product mix, and to a lesser extent, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from pricing.
Diluted earnings per share decreased by 12%, driven by a 18% decrease in net income and a decrease in diluted share count of 341 million shares.
The “BRICM” countries experienced a product revenue decline of 30% in the aggregate, driven by decreased product revenue in the emerging countries of Mexico, India, China, Russia and Brazil of 41%, 37%, 33%, 8% and 7%, respectively.


item3.txt
At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our available-for-sale debt investment portfolio.


item4.txt



part2.txt
The descriptions below include any material changes to and supersede the description of the risk factors affecting our business previously disclosed in “Part I, Item 1A.
Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2019.
The global macroeconomic environment has been challenging and inconsistent.
Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding global central bank monetary policy, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world including as a result of the pending United Kingdom “Brexit” withdrawal from the European Union, the current economic challenges in China, including global economic ramifications of Chinese economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment.
For example, emerging countries in the aggregate experienced a decline in product orders in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 and in certain prior periods.
In addition, reports of certain intelligence gathering methods of the U.S. government could affect customers’ perception of the products of IT companies which design and manufacture products in the United States.


