fls.txt



item1.txt
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The July 29, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
However, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading.
The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company’s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
SOFTBANK’s share of the earnings in the venture fund are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.
Certain reclassifications have been made to the amounts in prior periods in order to conform to the current period’s presentation.
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.
This resulted in an overall decrease in the effective tax rate for the six months ended January 27, 2018 due to recognition of excess tax benefits from share-based compensation.
The application of this accounting standard update did not have a material impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue Recognition In May 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard related to revenue recognition.


item2.txt
We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.
While the overall environment remains uncertain, we continue to aggressively invest in priority areas with the objective of driving profitable growth over the long term.
Within total revenue, product and service revenue each increased by 3%.
In terms of our geographic segments, revenue from the Americas increased $344 million, driven in large part by product revenue growth in the United States.
EMEA revenue decreased by $3 million, led by a product revenue decline in the United Kingdom.
Revenue in our APJC segment decreased by $34 million, led by a product revenue decline in Japan.
The “BRICM” countries experienced product revenue growth of 2% in the aggregate, driven by increased product revenue in the emerging countries of China, Russia and Brazil of 8%, 17% and 11%, respectively, partially offset by product revenue declines in India and Mexico of 11% and 4%, respectively.
From a customer market standpoint, we experienced product revenue growth in the public sector and commercial markets, partially offset by a product revenue decline in the service provider market.


item3.txt
We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers.


item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years.
We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years.
SSL SSL Services, LLC (“SSL”) has asserted claims for patent infringement against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.
SSL alleges that our AnyConnect products that include Virtual Private Networking functions infringed a U.S. patent owned by SSL.
SSL seeks money damages from us.
We believe we have strong arguments that our products do not infringe and the patent is invalid.
Due to uncertainty surrounding patent litigation processes, we are unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of this litigation at this time.


