item1.txt
 Unless otherwise indicated, references in the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are to our fiscal years ending September 27, 2019 and ended September 28, 2018, respectively.  
 We account for revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which introduced a single, comprehensive, five-step revenue recognition model. Our revenues are generated principally from the sale of our products. Revenue is recognized as performance obligations under the terms of a contract, such as a purchase order with a customer, are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control. We transfer control and recognize revenue when we ship product to our customers, the customers accept and have legal title for the product, and we have a right to payment for such product. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those products and excludes taxes assessed by governmental authorities and collected from customers concurrent with the sale of products. Shipping and handling costs are treated as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of sales. Since we typically invoice our customers when we satisfy our performance obligations, we do not have material contract assets or contract liabilities. Our credit terms are customary and do not contain significant financing components that extend beyond one year of fulfillment of performance obligations. We apply the practical expedient of ASC 606 with respect to financing components and do not evaluate contracts in which payment is due within one year of satisfaction of the related performance obligation. Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of March 29, 2019. See Note 15 for net sales disaggregated by industry end market and geographic region which is summarized by segment and that we consider meaningful to depict the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows affected by economic factors.  
 In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02 which codified ASC 842, Leases. This guidance, as subsequently amended, requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for most leases and is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. We are currently in the process of updating policies, internal controls, financial statement disclosures, and systems to incorporate the impact of the new standard in our financial reporting processes. We intend to adopt the standard using the optional transition method permitted by ASU No. 2018-11, which allows for application of the standard at the adoption date and no restatement of comparative periods. We expect that adoption will likely have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet; however, we currently do not expect adoption to have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. We believe that we are following an appropriate timeline to allow for the proper recognition, reporting, and disclosure of leases upon adoption of ASC 842 at the beginning of fiscal 2020.  
 In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, an update to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. The update improves and simplifies hedge accounting and related disclosures. We elected to early adopt this update, which did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018.  
 In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, an update to ASC 740, Income Taxes. This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory in the period in which the transfer occurs. The update was adopted on a modified retrospective basis in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 and resulted in a $443 million cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings, which represented the net reversal of all balances associated with deferred tax impacts of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. This included a decrease in other assets of $798 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $418 million, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $63 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.  
 In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09 which codified ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This guidance supersedes ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, and introduces a single, comprehensive, five-step revenue recognition model. ASC 606 also enhances disclosures related to revenue recognition. We adopted ASC 606, as amended, in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 using a modified retrospective approach. Prior period amounts have not been adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. Transition impacts, which relate primarily to incentive compensation arrangements, were not material to our results of operations or financial position. Because the impact of adoption was immaterial, we have not recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings.  
 During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments. In connection with this program, during the six months ended March 29, 2019, we recorded restructuring charges of $107 million. We expect to complete all restructuring actions commenced during the six months ended March 29, 2019 by the end of fiscal 2021 and to incur additional charges of approximately $20 million primarily in the Transportation Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments.  
 During fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions and Transportation Solutions segments. In connection with this program, during the six months ended March 29, 2019 and March 30, 2018, we recorded restructuring charges of $5 million and $35 million, respectively. We expect to complete all restructuring actions commenced during fiscal 2018 by the end of fiscal 2020 and to incur additional charges of approximately $10 million primarily in the Industrial Solutions segment.  
 (1) At March 29, 2019 and September 28, 2018, accumulated impairment losses for the Transportation Solutions, Industrial Solutions, and Communications Solutions segments were $2,191 million, $669 million, and $489 million, respectively.   
 During the six months ended March 29, 2019, Tyco Electronics Group S.A. (“TEGSA”), our 100%-owned subsidiary, issued $350 million aggregate principal amount of senior floating rate notes due June 2020. The notes bear interest at a rate of three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 0.45% per year. The notes are TEGSA’s unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and any future senior indebtedness of TEGSA and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that TEGSA may incur.  
 TEGSA has a five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) with total commitments of $1,500 million. The Credit Facility was amended in November 2018 primarily to extend the maturity date from December 2020 to November 2023. The amended Credit Facility contains provisions that allow for incremental commitments of up to $500 million, an option to temporarily increase the financial ratio covenant following a qualified acquisition, and borrowings in designated currencies. TEGSA had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at March 29, 2019 or September 28, 2018.  
 During fiscal 2019, we expanded our cross-currency swap program to hedge our net investment in certain foreign operations. The aggregate notional value of the fiscal 2019 contracts was $1,901 million at March 29, 2019. Under the terms of these contracts, we receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 3.00% per annum and pay no interest. Upon the maturity of these contracts at various dates through fiscal 2023, we will pay the notional value of the contracts in the designated foreign currencies and receive U.S. dollars from our counterparties.  


item2.txt
   ·    Our net sales decreased 4.2% and 2.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018, with sales declines in the Transportation Solutions and, to a lesser degree, the Communications Solutions segment, partially offset by growth in the Industrial Solutions segment. On an organic basis, our net sales decreased 0.5% during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 and increased 0.7% during the first six months of fiscal 2019, as compared to the same periods of fiscal 2018. 
   ·    Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 7.6% and 5.0% in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market. 
   ·    Industrial Solutions—Our net sales increased 3.6% and 4.4% during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of increased sales in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market. 
   ·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be offset by declines in the energy and industrial equipment end markets. In the industrial equipment end market, market weakness in factory automation and controls applications is expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications. 
 We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.13 to $1.17 per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $120 million and $0.06 per share, respectively, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2018.  
   ·    Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales increase in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market to be partially offset by declines in the energy end market. In the industrial equipment end market, we expect market weakness in factory automation and controls applications to be largely offset by growth in medical applications. 
 We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $4.88 to $4.98 per share in fiscal 2019. This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.  
 We are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. We continue to closely manage our costs in line with economic conditions. Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs. See further discussion in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  
 In September 2018, Swiss Parliament approved the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”), subject to a referendum and a public vote in May 2019. Swiss Tax Reform will change income taxation at both the federal and cantonal levels. Prior to approval in the referendum and its subsequent cantonal implementation, the proposed Swiss Tax Reform is not enacted and therefore we have not reflected any of the potential impacts on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements or in the above outlook. We are currently assessing the impacts of the proposed Swiss Tax Reform. If enacted, the federal provisions and subsequent cantonal implementation of Swiss Tax Reform may have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million. The SubCom business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was reported as such in all periods presented on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior to reclassification to discontinued operations, the SubCom business was included in the Communications Solutions segment. See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.  
 Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $36 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from the second quarter of fiscal 2018 due primarily to cost control measures and savings attributable to restructuring actions as well as reduced selling expenses and lower incentive compensation costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $24 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from the same period of fiscal 2018 due primarily to cost control measures and savings attributable to restructuring actions as well as lower incentive compensation costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 10.9% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 from 11.5% in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased to 11.3% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 from 11.4% in the same period of fiscal 2018.  
 Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased $13 million and $12 million during the second quarter and first six months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to the expansion of our cross-currency swap program in fiscal 2019. Under the terms of the fiscal 2019 contracts, we receive interest in U.S. dollars at a weighted-average rate of 3.00% per annum and pay no interest. See Note 9 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our cross-currency swap program.  
 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. During the first six months of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre‑tax loss on sale of $86 million. The net sales of the business were $41 million and $326 million in the first six months of fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. The results for the first six months of fiscal 2019 represent one month of activity. In the first six months of fiscal 2018, net sales and operating income were negatively impacted by production delays on a program. See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations.  
   ·    Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 4.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 with declines of 9.8% and 3.4% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 4.0% in the Americas region. Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions were driven by market weakness. In the Americas region, our growth resulted from electronification and market share gains. 
   ·    Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales increased 1.6% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due to content and share gains in the Americas and EMEA regions, partially offset by weakness in the Asia–Pacific region. 
   ·    Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 2.6% in the first six months of fiscal 2019 due to declines of 6.4% and 3.1% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 7.8% in the Americas region. Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions resulted from market weakness. In the Americas region, our growth was attributable to electronification and market share gains. 
   ·    Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales increased 0.8% in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to strength in medical applications, partially offset by market weakness in factory automation and controls. 


part2.txt



