fls.txt



item1.txt
We account for revenue in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which introduced a single, comprehensive, five-step revenue recognition model. Our revenues are generated principally from the sale of our products. Revenue is recognized as performance obligations under the terms of a contract, such as a purchase order with a customer, are satisfied; generally this occurs with the transfer of control. We transfer control and recognize revenue when we ship product to our customers, the customers accept and have legal title for the product, and we have a right to payment for such product. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those products and excludes taxes assessed by governmental authorities and collected from customers concurrent with the sale of products. Shipping and handling costs are treated as fulfillment costs and are included in cost of sales. Since we typically invoice our customers when we satisfy our performance obligations, we do not have material contract assets or contract liabilities. Our credit terms are customary and do not contain significant financing components that extend beyond one year of fulfillment of performance obligations. We apply the practical expedient of ASC 606 with respect to financing components and do not evaluate contracts in which payment is due within one year of satisfaction of the related performance obligation. Since our performance obligations to deliver products are part of contracts that generally have original durations of one year or less, we have elected to use the optional exemption to not disclose the aggregate amount of transaction prices associated with unsatisfied or partially satisfied performance obligations as of June 28, 2019. See Note 16 for net sales disaggregated by industry end market and geographic region which is summarized by segment and that we consider meaningful to depict the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows affected by economic factors.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-02 which codified ASC 842, Leases. This guidance, as subsequently amended, requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for most leases and is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. We are currently in the process of updating policies, internal controls, financial statement disclosures, and systems to incorporate the impact of the new standard in our financial reporting processes. We intend to adopt the standard using the optional transition method permitted by ASU No. 2018-11, which allows for application of the standard at the adoption date and no restatement of comparative periods. We expect that adoption will likely have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet; however, we currently do not expect adoption to have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. We believe that we are following an appropriate timeline to allow for the proper recognition, reporting, and disclosure of leases upon adoption of ASC 842 at the beginning of fiscal 2020.
In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, an update to ASC 740, Income Taxes. This guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory in the period in which the transfer occurs. The update was adopted on a modified retrospective basis in the quarter ended December 28, 2018 and resulted in a $443 million cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning accumulated earnings, which represented the net reversal of all balances associated with deferred tax impacts of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. This included a decrease in other assets of $798 million, an increase in deferred tax assets of $418 million, and a decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $63 million on the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments. In connection with this program, during the nine months ended June 28, 2019, we recorded restructuring charges of $179 million. We expect to complete all restructuring actions commenced during the nine months ended June 28, 2019 by the end of fiscal 2021 and to incur additional charges of approximately $25 million related primarily to employee severance in the Transportation Solutions and Industrial Solutions segments.
During fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions and Transportation Solutions segments. In connection with this program, during the nine months ended June 28, 2019 and June 29, 2018, we recorded net restructuring charges of $5 million and $109 million, respectively. We expect to complete all restructuring actions commenced during fiscal 2018 by the end of fiscal 2020 and anticipate that any additional charges will be insignificant.
During the nine months ended June 28, 2019, we sold our Subsea Communications (“SubCom”) business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre-tax loss on sale of $86 million, related primarily to the recognition of cumulative translation adjustment losses of $67 million and the guarantee liabilities discussed below. The SubCom business met the held for sale and discontinued operations criteria and was reported as such in all periods presented on the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior to reclassification to discontinued operations, the SubCom business was included in the Communications Solutions segment.
During the nine months ended June 28, 2019, we acquired three businesses for a combined cash purchase price of $296 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisitions were reported as part of our Transportation Solutions segment from the date of acquisition.
During the quarter ended June 28, 2019, Tyco Electronics Group S.A. (“TEGSA”), our 100%-owned subsidiary, issued €350 million aggregate principal amount of fixed-to-floating rate senior notes due June 2021. The fixed-to-floating rate senior notes bear interest at a rate of 0% until June 2020 and then at a rate of three-month Euro Interbank Offered Rate (“EURIBOR”) plus 0.30% per year until maturity. In June 2020, we may, at our option, redeem the fixed-to-floating rate senior notes, as a whole, at 100% of the principal amount. Also, during the nine months ended June 28, 2019, TEGSA issued $350 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior notes due June 2020. The floating rate senior notes bear interest at a rate of three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 0.45% per year. The fixed-to-floating rate senior notes and floating rate senior notes are TEGSA’s unsecured senior obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all existing and any future senior indebtedness of TEGSA and senior to any subordinated indebtedness that TEGSA may incur.
TEGSA has a five-year unsecured senior revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”) with total commitments of $1,500 million. The Credit Facility was amended in November 2018 primarily to extend the maturity date from December 2020 to November 2023. The amended Credit Facility contains provisions that allow for incremental commitments of up to $500 million, an option to temporarily increase the financial ratio covenant following a qualified acquisition, and borrowings in designated currencies. TEGSA had no borrowings under the Credit Facility at June 28, 2019 or September 28, 2018.
We are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at a number of sites. The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, and alternative cleanup methods. As of June 28, 2019, we concluded that we would incur investigation and remediation costs at these sites in the reasonably possible range of $15 million to $44 million, and we accrued $18 million as the probable loss, which was the best estimate within this range. We believe that any potential payment of such estimated amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
We sold our SubCom business during the nine months ended June 28, 2019. In connection with the sale, we contractually agreed to honor certain performance guarantees and letters of credit related to the SubCom business. See Note 3 for additional information regarding these guarantees and the divestiture of the SubCom business.
We hedge our net investment in certain foreign operations using intercompany loans and external borrowings denominated in the same currencies. The aggregate notional value of these hedges was $3,202 million and $4,064 million at June 28, 2019 and September 28, 2018, respectively. 


item2.txt
●Transportation Solutions—Our net sales decreased 6.8% and 5.6% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due primarily to sales declines in the automotive end market.
●Communications Solutions—Our net sales decreased 13.5% and 5.6% in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019, respectively, due to sales declines in both the appliances and the data and devices end markets.
●Industrial Solutions—We expect our net sales declines in the industrial equipment and energy end markets to be partially offset by growth in the aerospace, defense, oil, and gas end market. In the industrial equipment end market, sales declines resulting from high inventory levels at distributors are expected to be partially offset by growth in medical applications.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $0.81 to $0.87 per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $50 million and $0.03 per share, respectively, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
We expect diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $5.42 to $5.48 per share in fiscal 2019. This outlook reflects the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales and earnings per share of approximately $400 million and $0.16 per share, respectively, in fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
We are monitoring the current macroeconomic environment, including the uncertain market conditions in China, and its potential effects on our customers and the end markets we serve. We continue to closely manage our costs in line with economic conditions. Additionally, we are managing our capital resources and monitoring capital availability to ensure that we have sufficient resources to fund future capital needs. See further discussion in “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
In June 2019, we announced our intent to acquire all outstanding shares of First Sensor AG through a voluntary public tender offer. We expect to complete the transaction in fiscal 2020.
Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased $38 million and $62 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 from the same periods of fiscal 2018 due primarily to cost control measures and savings attributable to restructuring actions as well as lower incentive compensation costs and reduced selling expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 10.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 from 11.0% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and decreased to 11.0% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 from 11.3% in the same period of fiscal 2018.
During fiscal 2019, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements impacting all segments. During fiscal 2018, we initiated a restructuring program associated with footprint consolidation and structural improvements primarily impacting the Industrial Solutions and Transportation Solutions segments. In connection with these initiatives, we incurred net restructuring charges of $184 million during the first nine months of fiscal 2019, of which $179 million related to the fiscal 2019 restructuring program. Annualized cost savings related to the fiscal 2019 actions commenced during the first nine months of fiscal 2019 are expected to be approximately $145 million and are expected to be realized by the end of fiscal 2021. Cost savings will be reflected primarily in cost of sales and selling, general, and administrative expenses.
In response to market weakness, we are initiating incremental restructuring actions, primarily consisting of employee severance, to broaden the scope of our cost reduction initiatives and accelerate cost reduction and factory footprint consolidation activities. We previously disclosed that we expected total restructuring charges to be approximately $250 million in fiscal 2019. We have now increased this amount by $125 million. We currently expect total restructuring charges, which will impact all segments, to be approximately $375 million and total spending, which will be funded with cash from operations, to be approximately $165 million in 2019.
Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Income Taxes. During the first nine months of fiscal 2019, we sold our SubCom business for net cash proceeds of $297 million and incurred a pre-tax loss on sale of $86 million. The 
●Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 3.9% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to declines of 5.2% and 4.3% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively. Organic net sales in the Americas region were flat relative to the third quarter of fiscal 2018. Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions were driven by market weakness.
●Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 0.7% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to growth in the industrial equipment market, partially offset by declines in the commercial transportation market.
●Automotive—Our organic net sales decreased 3.1% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 due to declines of 6.1% and 3.5% in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, respectively, partially offset by growth of 5.0% in the Americas region. Our declines in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions resulted from market weakness. In the Americas region, our growth was attributable to electronification and market share gains.
●Commercial transportation—Our organic net sales decreased 0.7% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as a result of market weakness in the Asia–Pacific and EMEA regions, partially offset by growth in the Americas region.
●Sensors—Our organic net sales increased 1.8% in the first nine months of fiscal 2019 as a result of growth in the industrial equipment market, partially offset by declines in the commercial transportation and automotive markets.
●Industrial equipment—Our organic net sales decreased 5.5% in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 due primarily to reduced demand resulting from high inventory levels at distributors, partially offset by strength in medical applications.


