ITEM 1.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
For the Three and Nine Months Ended May 31, 2019 and 2018
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the Three and Nine Months Ended May 31, 2019 and 2018
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT
For the Three Months Ended May 31, 2019
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT
For the Three Months Ended May 31, 2018
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT
For the Nine Months Ended May 31, 2019
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENT
For the Nine Months Ended May 31, 2018
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS
For the Nine Months Ended May 31, 2019 and 2018
The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements of Accenture plc and its controlled subsidiary companies have been prepared pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and do not include all of the information and note disclosures required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S.
GAAP”) for complete financial statements.
We use the terms “Accenture,” “we” and “our” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries.
These Consolidated Financial Statements should therefore be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2018 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on October 24, 2018.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures.
Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events and actions that we may undertake in the future, actual results may differ from those estimates.
The Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments of a normal, recurring nature that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of results for these interim periods.
The results of operations for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2019.
On March 13, 2018, Accenture Holdings plc merged with and into Accenture plc, with Accenture plc as the surviving entity.
As a result, all of the assets and liabilities of Accenture Holdings plc were acquired by Accenture plc, and Accenture Holdings plc ceased to exist.
In connection with this internal merger, shareholders of Accenture Holdings plc (other than Accenture entities that held shares of Accenture Holdings plc), who primarily consisted of current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees, received one Class A ordinary share of Accenture plc for each share of Accenture Holdings plc that they owned, and Accenture plc redeemed all Class X ordinary shares of Accenture plc owned by such shareholders.
Allowances for Client Receivables
As of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, total allowances recorded for client receivables were $49,216 and $49,913, respectively.
Depreciation and Amortization
Depreciation expense was $109,398 and $322,746 for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019, respectively, and $101,814 and $315,410 for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively.
As of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, total accumulated depreciation was $2,074,736 and $1,862,098, respectively.
Deferred transition amortization expense was $67,225 and $204,313 for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019, respectively, and $95,696 and $248,838 for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively.
See Note 6 (Goodwill and Intangible Assets) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for intangible asset amortization balances.
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
2014-09 (“Topic 606”)
On September 1, 2018, we adopted FASB ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced most existing revenue recognition guidance.
The core principle of Topic 606 is that an entity should recognize revenue for the transfer of goods or services equal to the amount that it expects to be entitled to receive for those goods or services.
Topic 606 has been applied to contracts that were not completed as of September 1, 2018.
Results for reporting periods beginning after September 1, 2018 are presented under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with our historic accounting.
See Note 2 (Revenues) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
In connection with the adoption of Topic 606, we are now presenting total revenues and no longer reporting revenues before reimbursements.
Prior period results have been revised to reflect this change in presentation.
As a result of this change, for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018, both total revenues and cost of services
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
The impact of adopting the new standard was not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
The primary impacts included additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from client contracts, including judgments and changes in estimates.
Upon adoption, we recorded a decrease to retained earnings of $6,451, net of a tax impact of $3,071, as of September 1, 2018.
The impact of adopting the new standard for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019 was an increase to revenues of approximately $35.8 million and $54.5 million, respectively.
The impact on our balance sheet as of May 31, 2019 was not material with the exception of the classification of $2.4 billion of receivables and $589.6 million of contract assets, which were previously classified as Unbilled services, net.
FASB ASU No.
2016-16
FASB ASU No.
2017-07
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
FASB ASU No.
2016-01
New Accounting Pronouncement
We account for revenue in accordance with Topic 606, which we adopted on September 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method.
Performance Obligations
A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the client and is the unit of accounting in Topic 606.
A contract’s transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price.
The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which we forecast our expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then add an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service based on margins for similar services sold on a standalone basis.
While determining relative standalone selling price and identifying separate performance obligations require judgment, generally relative standalone selling prices and the separate performance obligations are readily identifiable as we sell those performance obligations unaccompanied by other performance obligations.
Contract modifications are routine in the performance of our contracts.
Contracts are often modified to account for changes in the contract specifications, requirements or duration.
If a contract modification results in the addition of performance obligations priced at a standalone selling price or if the post-modification services are distinct from the services provided prior to the modification, the modification is accounted for separately.
If the modified services are not distinct, they are accounted for as part of the existing contract.
Our revenues are derived from contracts for outsourcing services, technology integration consulting services and non-technology consulting services.
These contracts have different terms based on the scope, performance obligations and complexity of the engagement, which frequently require us to make judgments and estimates in recognizing revenues.
We have many types of contracts, including time-and-materials contracts, fixed-price contracts, fee-per-transaction contracts and contracts with multiple fee types.
The nature of our contracts gives rise to several types of variable consideration, including incentive fees.
Many contracts include incentives or penalties related to costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedules that
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on such contracts.
These variable amounts generally are awarded or refunded upon achievement of or failure to achieve certain performance metrics, milestones or cost targets and can be based upon client discretion.
We include these variable fees in the estimated transaction price when there is a basis to reasonably estimate the amount of the fee and it is not probable a significant reversal of revenue will occur.
These estimates reflect the expected value of the variable fee and are based on an assessment of our anticipated performance, historical experience and other information available at the time.
Our performance obligations are satisfied over time as work progresses or at a point in time.
The majority of our revenues are recognized over time based on the extent of progress towards satisfying our performance obligations.
The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the contract and the nature of the services to be provided.
Outsourcing Contracts
Our outsourcing contracts typically span several years.
Revenues are generally recognized on outsourcing contracts over time because our clients benefit from the services as they are performed.
Outsourcing contracts require us to provide a series of distinct services each period over the contract term.
Revenues from unit-priced contracts are recognized as transactions are processed.
When contractual billings represent an amount that corresponds directly with the value provided to the client (e.g., time-and-materials contracts), revenues are recognized as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms.
Technology Integration Consulting Services
Non-Technology Integration Consulting Services
Our contracts for non-technology integration consulting services are typically less than a year in duration.
Revenues are generally recognized over time as our clients benefit from the services as they are performed, or the contract includes termination provisions enabling payment for performance completed to date.
When contractual billings represent an amount that corresponds directly with the value provided to the client (e.g.
time-and-materials contracts), revenues are recognized as amounts become billable in accordance with contract terms.
Revenues from fixed-price contracts are generally recognized using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion to measure progress toward satisfying our performance obligations.
Incurred cost represents work performed, which corresponds with, and thereby best depicts, the transfer of control to the client.
For non-technology integration consulting contracts which do not qualify to recognize revenue over time, we recognize revenues at a point in time when we satisfy our performance obligations and the client obtains control of the promised good or service.
Remaining Performance Obligations
On May 31, 2019, we had approximately $18 billion of remaining performance obligations.
Our remaining performance obligations represent the amount of transaction price for which work has not been performed and revenue has not been recognized.
The majority of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice with little or no termination penalties, and some without notice.
Under Topic 606, only the non-cancelable portion of these contracts is included in our performance obligations.
Additionally, our performance obligations only include variable consideration if we assess it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved.
Based on the terms of our contracts, a significant portion of what we consider contract bookings is not included in our remaining performance obligations.
We expect to recognize approximately 39% of our remaining performance obligations as revenue in fiscal 2019, an additional 37% in fiscal 2020, and the balance thereafter.
See Note 11 (Segment Reporting) to these Consolidated Financial Statements for our disaggregated revenues.
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
Contract Estimates
Estimates of total contract revenues and costs are continuously monitored over the life of our contracts, and recorded revenues and cost estimates are subject to revision as the contract progresses.
If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on a technology integration consulting contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it first becomes probable and reasonably estimable.
Adjustments in contract estimates related to performance obligations satisfied or partially satisfied in prior periods increased our revenues by approximately $16 million and decreased our revenues by approximately $13 million for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019, respectively.
No adjustment on any one contract was material to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019.
Contract Balances
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in Receivables, Contract assets, and Deferred revenues (Contract liabilities) on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g., monthly or quarterly) or upon achievement of contractual milestones.
Our receivables are rights to consideration that are conditional only upon the passage of time as compared to our contract assets, which are rights to consideration conditional upon additional factors.
When we bill or receive payments from our clients before revenue is recognized, we record Contract liabilities.
Contract assets and liabilities are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet on a contract-by-contract basis at the end of each reporting period.
For some outsourcing contracts, we receive payments for transition or set-up activities, which are deferred and recognized as revenue as the services are provided.
These advance payments are typically not a significant financing component because they are used to meet working capital demands in the early stages of a contract and to protect us from the other party failing to complete its obligations under the contract.
Deferred transition revenues were $570,310 and $581,395 as of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and are included in Non-current deferred revenues.
Costs related to these activities are also deferred and are expensed as the services are provided.
Generally, deferred amounts are protected in the event of early termination of the contract and are monitored regularly for impairment.
Impairment losses are recorded when projected remaining undiscounted operating cash flows of the related contract are not sufficient to recover the carrying amount of contract assets.
Deferred transition costs were $685,605 and $690,868 as of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, respectively, and are included in Deferred contract costs.
Changes in the contract asset and liability balances during the nine months ended May 31, 2019, were a result of normal business activity and not materially impacted by any other factors.
Revenues recognized during the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019 that were included in Deferred revenues as of February 28, 2019 and September 1, 2018 were $1.7 billion and $2.7 billion, respectively.
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
3.
EARNINGS PER SHARE
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
4.
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
During the nine months ended May 31, 2019, we completed individually immaterial acquisitions for total consideration of $1,034,730, net of cash acquired.
The pro forma effects of these acquisitions on our operations were not material.
6.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill
Goodwill includes immaterial adjustments related to prior period acquisitions.
Intangible Assets
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
7.
MATERIAL TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Dividends
The payment of the cash dividends also resulted in the issuance of an immaterial number of additional restricted share units to holders of restricted share units.
Derivatives
In the normal course of business, we use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk.
Our derivative financial instruments consist of deliverable and non-deliverable foreign currency forward contracts.
Cash Flow Hedges
For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in estimated fair value of a hedging instrument is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of Shareholders’ Equity and is reclassified into Cost of services in the Consolidated Income Statements during the period in which the hedged transaction is recognized.
For information related to derivatives designated as cash flow hedges that were reclassified into Cost of services during the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018, as well as those expected to be reclassified into Cost of services in the next 12 months, see Note 4 (Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Other Derivatives
Realized gains or losses and changes in the estimated fair value of foreign currency forward contracts that have not been designated as hedges were net losses of $10,319 and $88,247 for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2019, respectively, and net losses of $84,480 and $37,698 for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively.
Gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in Other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Income Statements and are offset by gains and losses on the related hedged items.
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
Equity Securities Without Readily Determinable Fair Values
We hold investments in equity securities that do not have readily determinable fair values.
We record these investments at cost and remeasure them to fair value based on certain observable price changes or impairment events as they occur.
The carrying amount of these investments was $125,724 as of May 31, 2019.
Prior to the adoption of FASB ASU No.
2016-01, these investments were accounted for under the cost method.
For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
On December 22, 2017, the United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which significantly changed U.S. tax law.
The Tax Act lowered the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective January 1, 2018, resulting in a blended U.S. statutory federal income tax rate of 25.7% for our fiscal year ended August 31, 2018.
In the three months ended February 28, 2018, we recognized tax expense of $136,724, primarily to remeasure our net deferred tax assets at the new, lower rates.
In the three months ended May 31, 2018, we recorded additional tax expense of $40,927 resulting from our continued analysis of the Tax Act.
Our analysis and accounting for the Tax Act is complete.
We apply an estimated annual effective tax rate to our year-to-date operating results to determine the interim provision for income tax expense.
In addition, we recognize taxes related to unusual or infrequent items or resulting from a change in judgment regarding a position taken in a prior year as discrete items in the interim period in which the event occurs.
Our effective tax rates for the three months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 were 25.6% and 34.4%, respectively.
Our effective tax rates for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 and 2018 were 21.1% and 27.2%, respectively.
Excluding tax expense associated with the enactment of the Tax Act and $80,847 of expense from a non-U.S. tax law change, the effective tax rates would have been 26.8% and 21.3% for the three and nine months ended May 31, 2018, respectively.
The effective tax rate for the three months ended May 31, 2019 was lower primarily due to changes in prior year tax liabilities and the geographic distribution of earnings, partially offset by higher expense from the adoption of FASB ASU No.
2016-16.
The effective tax rate for the nine months ended May 31, 2019 was lower primarily due to higher benefits from final determinations of prior year taxes, changes in the geographic distribution of earnings and adjustments to prior year tax liabilities.
These decreases were partially offset by higher expense from the adoption of FASB ASU No.
2016-16 and lower tax benefits from share-based payments.
For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to these Consolidated Financial Statements.
10.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Commitments
We have either the right to purchase at fair value or, if certain events occur, may be required to purchase at fair value outstanding shares of our SinnerSchrader AG subsidiary.
As of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, we have reflected the fair value of approximately $41,000 and $47,000, respectively, related to redeemable common stock of the subsidiary in Other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Indemnifications and Guarantees
In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters.
As of May 31, 2019 and August 31, 2018, our aggregate potential liability to our clients for expressly limited guarantees involving the performance of third parties was approximately $702,000 and $782,000, respectively, of which all but approximately $130,000 and $130,000, respectively, may be recovered from the other third parties if we are obligated to make payments to the indemnified parties as a consequence of a performance default by the other third parties.
For arrangements with unspecified limitations, we cannot reasonably estimate the aggregate maximum potential liability, as it is inherently difficult to predict the maximum potential amount of such payments, due to the conditional nature and unique facts of each particular arrangement.
Legal Contingencies
ACCENTURE PLC
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (continued)
ITEM 1.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
The information set forth under “Legal Contingencies” in Note 10 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I, Item 1, “Financial Statements,” is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
For a discussion of our potential risks and uncertainties, see the information under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018.
There have been no material changes to the risk factors disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2018.
