ITEM 2.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019, and with the information under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019.
We use the terms “Accenture,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this report to refer to Accenture plc and its subsidiaries.
All references to years, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on August 31.
For example, a reference to “fiscal 2020” means the 12-month period that will end on August 31, 2020.
All references to quarters, unless otherwise noted, refer to the quarters of our fiscal year.
We use the term “in local currency” so that certain financial results may be viewed without the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of business performance.
Financial results “in local currency” are calculated by restating current period activity into U.S. dollars using the comparable prior year period’s foreign currency exchange rates.
This approach is used for all results where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar.
Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) relating to our operations, results of operations and other matters that are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections.
Words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “positioned,” “outlook” and similar expressions are used to identify these forward-looking statements.
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate.
Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in these forward-looking statements.
Risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause such differences, some of which could be material, include, but are not limited to:
•Our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile, negative or uncertain economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity.
•Our business depends on generating and maintaining ongoing, profitable client demand for our services and solutions, including through the adaptation and expansion of our services and solutions in response to ongoing changes in technology and offerings, and a significant reduction in such demand or an inability to respond to the evolving technological environment could materially affect our results of operations.
•If we are unable to keep our supply of skills and resources in balance with client demand around the world and attract and retain professionals with strong leadership skills, our business, the utilization rate of our professionals and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
•The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we might not be able to compete effectively.
•Changes in our level of taxes, as well as audits, investigations and tax proceedings, or changes in tax laws or in their interpretation or enforcement, could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
•Our profitability could materially suffer if we are unable to obtain favorable pricing for our services and solutions, if we are unable to remain competitive, if our cost-management strategies are unsuccessful or if we experience delivery inefficiencies.
•Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
•As a result of our geographically diverse operations and our growth strategy to continue to expand in our key markets around the world, we are more susceptible to certain risks.
•Our business could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability.
•Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment.
•If we are unable to manage the organizational challenges associated with our size, we might be unable to achieve our business objectives.
•Our ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on our reputation in the marketplace.
•If we do not successfully manage and develop our relationships with key alliance partners or if we fail to anticipate and establish new alliances in new technologies, our results of operations could be adversely affected.
•We might not be successful at acquiring, investing in or integrating businesses, entering into joint ventures or divesting businesses.
•If we are unable to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or if our services or solutions infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others or we lose our ability to utilize the intellectual property of others, our business could be adversely affected.
•Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls.
•Changes to accounting standards or in the estimates and assumptions we make in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements could adversely affect our financial results.
•Many of our contracts include fees subject to the attainment of targets or specific service levels.
This could increase the variability of our revenues and impact our margins.
•We might be unable to access additional capital on favorable terms or at all.
If we raise equity capital, it may dilute our shareholders’ ownership interest in us.
•We are incorporated in Ireland and a significant portion of our assets is located outside the United States.
As a result, it might not be possible for shareholders to enforce civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States.
We may also be subject to criticism and negative publicity related to our incorporation in Ireland.
•Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and might afford less protection to shareholders.
For a more detailed discussion of these factors, see the information under the heading “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2019.
Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Overview
Revenues are driven by the ability of our executives to secure new contracts, to renew and extend existing contracts, and to deliver services and solutions that add value relevant to our clients’ current needs and challenges.
The level of revenues we achieve is based on our ability to deliver market-leading services and solutions and to deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly and on a global basis.
Our results of operations are affected by economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions and levels of business confidence.
There continues to be significant volatility and economic and geopolitical uncertainty in many markets around the world, which may impact our business.
We continue to monitor the impact of this volatility and uncertainty and seek to manage our costs in order to respond to changing conditions.
There also continues to be volatility in foreign currency exchange rates.
The majority of our revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, Japanese yen and U.K. pound.
Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have had and could have in the future a material effect on our financial results.
Summary of Results
As we are a global company, our revenues are denominated in multiple currencies and may be significantly affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations.
If the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, resulting in favorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be higher.
If the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, resulting in unfavorable currency translation, our revenues, revenue growth and results of operations in U.S. dollars may be lower.
The U.S. dollar strengthened against various currencies during the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2019, resulting in unfavorable currency translation and U.S. dollar revenue growth that was approximately 2% lower than our revenue growth in local currency.
Assuming that exchange rates stay within recent ranges for the remainder of fiscal 2020, we estimate that our full fiscal 2020 revenue growth in U.S. dollars will be approximately 1% lower in U.S. dollars than our revenue growth in local currency.
Gross margin (Revenues less Cost of services as a percentage of Revenues) for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was 32.1%, compared with 31.1% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase in gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was primarily due to lower labor costs as a percentage of revenues compared to the same period in fiscal 2019.
Sales and marketing and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues were 16.6% for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared with 15.7% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period in fiscal 2019, Sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenues increased 40 basis points, primarily due to higher selling and other business development costs, and General and administrative costs as a percentage of revenues increased 50 basis points, primarily due to higher technology and facilities costs.
We continuously monitor these costs and implement cost-management actions, as appropriate.
Operating margin (Operating income as a percentage of revenues) for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was 15.6%, compared with 15.4% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
New Bookings
New bookings for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 were $10.3 billion, with consulting bookings of $6.0 billion and outsourcing bookings of $4.3 billion.
Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended November 30, 2019 Compared to the Three Months Ended November 30, 2018
Amounts in table may not total due to rounding.
Revenues
Operating Groups
Geographic Regions
•North America revenues increased 9% in local currency, driven by the United States.
•Europe revenues increased 7% in local currency, led by Italy, Germany, France and Ireland.
•Growth Markets revenues increased 13% in local currency, driven by Japan, as well as Brazil and Singapore.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $615 million, or 7%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 84.4% from 84.6% during this period.
Cost of Services
Cost of services for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $403 million, or 6%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 67.9% from 68.9% during this period.
Gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased to 32.1% from 31.1% during the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The increase in gross margin was primarily due to lower labor costs as a percentage of revenues compared to the same period in fiscal 2019.
Sales and Marketing
Sales and marketing expense for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $121 million, or 11%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 10.5% from 10.1% during this period.
The increase as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to higher selling and other business development costs compared to the same period in fiscal 2019.
General and Administrative Costs
General and administrative costs for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $91 million, or 15%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 6.1% from 5.6% during this period.
The increase as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to higher technology and facilities costs compared to the same period in fiscal 2019.
Operating Income and Operating Margin
Operating income for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 increased $138 million, or 8%, over the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
•Financial Services operating income decreased as revenue growth was offset by lower contract profitability and higher sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenues.
•Products operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher consulting contract profitability.
•Resources operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth and higher outsourcing contract profitability.
Other Income (Expense), net
Other income (expense), net primarily consists of foreign currency gains and losses, non-operating components of pension expense, as well as gains and losses associated with our investments.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2020, other income (expense) increased $45 million over the first quarter of fiscal 2019, primarily due to gains on investments, partially offset by foreign exchange losses.
Income Tax Expense
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2020 was 23.6%, compared with 19.8% for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The higher effective tax rate for the three months ended November 30, 2019 was primarily due to lower benefits from final determinations of prior year taxes and the phased-in effects of US tax reform.
For additional information, see Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.”
Our provision for income taxes is based on many factors and subject to volatility year to year.
We expect the fiscal 2020 annual effective tax rate to be in the range of 23.5% to 25.5%.
The effective tax rate for interim periods can vary because of the timing of when certain events occur during the year.
Earnings Per Share
Diluted earnings per share were $2.09 for the first quarter of fiscal 2020, compared with $1.96 for the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
The $0.13 increase in our diluted earnings per share was due to an increase of $0.17 from higher revenues and operating results, $0.06 from higher non-operating income, and $0.01 from lower weighted average shares outstanding.
These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.11 from a higher effective tax rate.
For information regarding our earnings per share calculations, see Note 3 (Earnings Per Share) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.”
Liquidity and Capital Resources
As of November 30, 2019, Cash and cash equivalents was $5.8 billion, compared with $6.1 billion as of August 31, 2019.
Amounts in table may not total due to rounding.
We believe that our current and longer-term working capital, investments and other general corporate funding requirements will be satisfied for the next twelve months and thereafter through cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, from our borrowing facilities and future financial market activities.
Substantially all of our cash is held in jurisdictions where there are no regulatory restrictions or material tax effects on the free flow of funds.
Domestic cash inflows for our Irish parent, principally dividend distributions from lower-tier subsidiaries, have been sufficient to meet our historic cash requirements, and we expect this to continue into the future.
Borrowing Facilities
Under the borrowing facilities described above, we had an aggregate of $414 million of letters of credit outstanding as of November 30, 2019.
Share Purchases and Redemptions
The Board of Directors of Accenture plc has authorized funding for our publicly announced open-market share purchase program for acquiring Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and for purchases and redemptions of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares and Accenture Canada Holdings Inc. exchangeable shares held by current and former members of Accenture Leadership and their permitted transferees.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
In the normal course of business and in conjunction with some client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients with respect to certain matters.
To date, we have not been required to make any significant payment under any of the arrangements described above.
For further discussion of these transactions, see Note 11 (Commitments and Contingencies) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.”
Significant Accounting Policies
See Note 1 (Basis of Presentation) and Note 7 (Leases) to our Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1, “Financial Statements.” Note 7 includes updates to our leases policy as a result of the implementation of FASB ASU No.
2016-02.
ITEM 2.
UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS
Purchases of Accenture plc Class A Ordinary Shares
The following table provides information relating to our purchases of Accenture plc Class A ordinary shares during the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
