The Company is a defendant in various lawsuits, claims, and actions, which arise in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. However, an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on the Company's condensed consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations in the periods in which the matters are ultimately resolved, or in the periods in which more information is obtained that changes management's opinion of the ultimate disposition.The Products and Systems Integration segment’s net sales represented 65% of our consolidated net sales in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018. The Services and Software segment’s net sales represented 35% of our consolidated net sales in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018.
On March 11, 2019, we announced that we acquired Avtec, Inc. ("Avtec"), a provider of dispatch communications for U.S. public safety and commercial customers for a purchase price of $136 million in cash, net of cash acquired. This acquisition expands our commercial portfolio with new capabilities, allowing us to offer an enhanced platform for customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities. The business will be part of both the Products and Systems Integration and Services and Software segments. 
We are a leading global provider of mission-critical communications. Our technology platforms in communications, software, video, and services make cities safer and help communities and businesses thrive. We are ushering in a new era in public safety and security. We serve our customers with a global footprint of sales in more than 100 countries and 17,000 employees worldwide based on our industry leading innovation and a deep portfolio of products and services.
Net gains on sales of investments and businesses were $1 million in the first quarter of 2019 compared to $11 million during the first quarter of 2018. The net gains were related to the sales of various equity investments. 
•94% growth in Software, driven primarily by revenue from the acquisitions of VaaS, Avigilon, and Plant, and growth in our command center software suite.
•9% growth in Devices revenue primarily due to the acquisition of Avigilon along with strong demand for land mobile radio ("LMR") in the Americas and EMEA.
On March 28, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Avigilon Corporation ("Avigilon"), a provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras and access control solutions for a purchase price of $974 million in cash.
On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc. ("Plant"), the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million in cash. This acquisition expanded our software portfolio in the command center with additional solutions for Next Generation 9-1-1.
•a $500 million debt-funded voluntary contribution to our U.S. pension plan in the first quarter of 2018;
At March 30, 2019, the Company had retained servicing obligations for $944 million of long-term receivables, compared to $970 million at December 31, 2018. Servicing obligations are limited to collection activities related to the sales of accounts receivables and long-term receivables. 
The following table provides information with respect to acquisitions by the Company of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended March 30, 2019.
ASC 842 provides for a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We elected the practical expedients, which permit us to not reassess prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs under ASC 842. We did not elect the "use-of hindsight" practical expedient to determine the lease term or in assessing the likelihood that a lease purchase option will be exercised, allowing us to carry forward the lease term as determined prior to adoption of ASC 842. Finally, we also elected the practical expedient related to land easements, which enabled us to continue our accounting treatment for land easements on existing agreements as of January 1, 2019.Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskNone.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.Item 1. Legal Proceedings
On January 3, 2019, as partial consideration for the acquisition of VaaS International Holdings ("VaaS"), a company that is a global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location, we issued 1,802,379 shares of the Company at a fair value of $198 million, inclusive of $38 million related to compensation withheld from the purchase that will be expensed over an average service period of one year, to certain of the former owners of VaaS. These shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in a privately negotiated transaction not involving any public offering or solicitation. 
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds