The segment’s net sales increased $103 million, or 22%, to $574 million in the third quarter of 2018, as compared to $471 million in the third quarter of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, as well as growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. On a geographic basis, net sales for the third quarter of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the third quarter of 2017. 
The segment had operating earnings of $183 million in the third quarter of 2018, compared to $266 million in the third quarter of 2017. The decrease in operating earnings in the third quarter of 2018 compared to the third quarter of 2017 was driven 
For the third quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 69% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 71% of our consolidated net sales for the third quarter of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, the segment's net sales represented 67% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 70% of our consolidated net sales for the first nine months of 2017.
For third quarter of 2018, the segment’s net sales represented 31% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 29% of our consolidated net sales for the third quarter of 2017. For the first nine months of 2018, the segment's net sales represented 33% of our consolidated net sales, compared to 30% of our consolidated net sales for the first nine months of 2017.
The segment’s net sales increased $353 million, to $3.4 billion in the first nine months of 2018, as compared to $3.1 billion during the first nine months of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in Devices and Systems and Systems Integration sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions. 
The segment’s net sales increased $114 million, to $1.3 billion in the third quarter of 2018, as compared to $1.2 billion during the third quarter of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by an increase in Devices and Systems and Systems Integration sales. Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA due to the acquisition of Avigilon. Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in AP due to the acquisition of Avigilon and growth absent of acquisitions. 
The segment’s net sales increased $313 million, or 23%, to $1.7 billion in the first nine months of 2018, as compared to $1.3 billion in the first nine months of 2017. The increase in the segment's net sales was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and the Interexport acquisition within Services, as well as growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. On a geographic basis, net sales for the first nine months of 2018 increased in every region, compared to the first nine months of 2017. 
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in every region. Within the Products and Systems Integration segment, Devices net sales increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP and Systems and Systems Integration net sales increased in every region. The Services and Software segment increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business, the acquisition of Interexport in Services and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by the acquisition of Kodiak Networks in the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and the Software businesses.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 60% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 56% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2017.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the third quarter of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the third quarter of 2017. 
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 74% of the segment’s net sales in the first nine months of 2018, compared to 73% of the segment's net sales in the first nine months of 2017. 
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 58% of the segment’s net sales in the first nine months of 2018, compared to 55% of the segment’s net sales in the first nine months of 2017.
The increase in net sales is reflective of growth in the Americas and EMEA. Devices net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in the Americas and EMEA and decreased in AP. Systems and Systems Integration net sales within the Products and Systems Integration segment increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increased in every region. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in the Americas was driven by acquisitions within the Software business and growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in EMEA was primarily driven by growth absent of acquisitions in Services. The Services and Software segment net sales increase in AP was driven by growth absent of acquisitions in both Services and Software. Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market RiskNone.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.Item 1. Legal Proceedings
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
None.