We can give no assurance that any future results or events discussed in these statements will be achieved.For both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 55% of our consolidated net sales.
As a result of the ASU, the presentation of net periodic cost (benefit) has been updated to classify all components of our net periodic benefit, with the exception of the service cost component, within Other in Other income (expense) on the statement of operations.
Our products and services help government, public safety and commercial customers improve their operations through increased effectiveness, efficiency, and safety of their mobile workforces.
After taxes, we had net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $117 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2018, compared to net earnings attributable to Motorola Solutions, Inc. of $77 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2017.
Net sales in the Americas continued to comprise a significant portion of the segment’s business, accounting for approximately 76% of the segment’s net sales in the first quarter of 2018, compared to 75% of the segment's net sales in the first quarter of 2017.
The decrease in net interest expense in the first quarter of 2018 as compared to the first quarter of 2017 was a result of higher interest income due to amounts associated with a tax refund received within the first quarter of 2018.
Systems net sales increased in EMEA and AP.
For both the first quarter of 2018 and 2017, the segment’s net sales represented 45% of our consolidated net sales.
On March 7, 2018, we completed the acquisition of Plant Holdings, Inc., the parent company of Airbus DS Communications for a purchase price of $237 million.
The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect in those periods.
The increase in gross margin percentage was primarily driven by a favorable mix in the Products segment.
We have investment grade ratings on our senior unsecured long-term debt from the three largest U.S. national rating agencies.Motorola Solutions undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement or risk factor, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.We plan to continue to migrate the remaining parts of the business off regional systems as we work towards a single global platform.
Item 5.Item 1A.
None.