fls.txt



item1.txt
Products revenues represent product-only networking solutions sold through our Products platform.
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Top Parent, Parent and BBX Intermediate have agreed to cause Merger Sub to commence a tender offer to purchase any and all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company, at a price of $1.08 per Share, net to the holder thereof, in cash, without interest thereon.
Entity”) and are guaranteed by such domestic subsidiaries.
While the Company has incremental commission costs associated with contracts greater than one year in duration, these amounts earned were not significant during the period.
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
Under ASC 606, revenues are to be recognized when or as performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer.
Under the Second Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
References herein to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
Such notices may be sent upon an event of default or potential default.
The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets consist solely of the Company’s trademark portfolio.
As of September 30, 2018, the Company had $9,825 outstanding in letters of credit and $10,000 in unused commitments.
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table is based on the closing stock price of the common stock on September 28, 2018, which was $1.03.
See Note 16 for additional information.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the leverage ratio covenant was suspended until the second quarter of Fiscal 2019.
The accompanying unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of Black Box have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.


item2.txt
Interest expense as a percent of Revenues was 2.1%, compared to 0.9% in the same period last year.
The net cash proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business, after purchase price adjustments of $5.6 million, transaction fees and expenses of $3.2 million as well as $3.0 million of funds deposited into escrow for the finalization of certain closing items as well as certain indemnifications, were used to pay Bank fees, interest on bank debt and indebtedness.
Total Revenues were $321,152, a decrease of 1% from $325,210 in the same period last year.
The Company repaid $7,029 of short-term debt and $48,623 of long-term debt.
All dollar amounts are presented in thousands except for per share amounts or unless otherwise noted.
Since the inception of the repurchase program beginning in April 1999 through September 30, 2018, the Company has repurchased 11,392,851 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $408,621, or an average purchase price per share of $35.87.
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 42-year history.
The Company's liquidity (cash and cash equivalents and unused credit commitments) was $31,943 at the end of the second quarter of Fiscal 2019, compared to $35,600 at the end of Fiscal 2018.


item3.txt
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.


item4.txt
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations.


part2.txt
This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, and operations personnel.
The Offer is not subject to a financing condition.


