fls.txt
We can give no assurance that any goal, plan or target set forth in forward-looking statements will be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made.


item1.txt
The actual ending dates for the periods presented in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of June 30, 2018 and 2017 were June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively.
These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.
The following table summarizes the changes to the restructuring liability for the periods presented.
In addition, the Company finances certain vendor-specific inventory under an unsecured revolving arrangement through third parties which provide extended payment terms beyond those offered by the vendor at no incremental cost to the Company.
These assets are reported under the North America Products operating segment.
As of June 30, 2018, there was $1,500 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
As of June 30, 2018, there was $1,500 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.6 years.
Significant estimates in these financial statements include project progress towards completion to estimated budget, allowances for doubtful accounts receivable, sales returns, net realizable value of inventories, loss contingencies, warranty reserves, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill.
These operating segments are also the Company's reporting units for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment and its reporting segments for financial reporting purposes.
As of June 30, 2018, there was $2,996 of total unrecognized pre-tax stock-based compensation expense related to non-vested stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.5 years.
The Company is also required to cause the execution of deposit account control agreements with respect to certain U.S. bank accounts of the Loan Parties and to deliver to the Agent executed assignment agreements and forms of notice of assignment with respect to certain federal government contracts.
The Company conducts business globally and is managed on a geographic-service type basis consisting of four operating segments which are (i) North America Products, (ii) North America Services, (iii) International Products and (iv) International Services.
The Company believes the expected net proceeds from the sale of the Federal Business will enable the Company to take further steps to generate additional liquidity, including entering into a transaction, selling additional assets or businesses, or obtaining alternative financing, as well as making changes to the overall cost structure of the business.
The Company has historically made reasonably accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion under the cost-to-cost input method.
While the Company has incremental commission costs associated with contracts greater than one year in duration, these amounts earned for the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 were not significant.
The Company's assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include non-financial assets and liabilities initially measured at fair value in a business combination.
Revenues related to remaining unsatisfied performance obligations from open contracts that have not yet been recognized through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019 are $302,397, $157,438 of which is expected to be recognized in the next six months.


item2.txt
The Company offers Services and Products that it distributes through two platforms that it has built over its 42-year history.
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
The Company made investments of $528 compared to $1,097 in the same period last year which primarily related to information technology infrastructure, computer hardware and service vehicles.
The Company entered into an executed purchase agreement with respect to the sale of the Federal Business on August 17, 2018 which is expected to close on or before August 31, 2018.
Services revenues were $159,247, an increase of 0.3% from $158,756 in the same period last year primarily due to a decrease in our federal business's revenues offset by a realignment of several international entities between Products and Services as a result of changes in our management structure in the second quarter of Fiscal 2018.
See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I of this Quarterly Report for additional information.
References to "Fiscal Year" or "Fiscal" mean the Company’s fiscal year ended March 31 for the year referenced.
Additional risk factors are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018.
The leverage ratio covenant that was to commence in the second quarter of Fiscal 2019 was to be 4.00 to 1.00 and was to reduce to 3.00 to 1.00 over the remaining life of the credit facility.


item3.txt
The Company has entered and will continue in the future, on a selective basis, to enter into foreign currency contracts to reduce the foreign currency exposure related to certain intercompany transactions, primarily trade receivables and loans.


item4.txt
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations.


part2.txt



