fls.txt
Any forward-looking statements contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in documents incorporated herein by reference are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q.


item1.txt
Based on the available evidence, a valuation allowance of $6,236 has been recorded against deferred tax assets relating to U.S. Federal foreign tax credits for $6,061, and state and foreign net operating losses for $17 and $158, respectively, for the three-
The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
Employee severance is generally payable within the next twelve months with certain facility costs extending through Fiscal 2019.
In August 2008, the Company’s stockholders approved the 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"), which replaced the 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended, and the 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, as amended.
The fair value of performance share awards (subject to the Company’s Relative TSR Ranking) is estimated on the grant date using the Monte-Carlo simulation valuation method which includes the following weighted-average assumptions.
Our amended credit agreement contains covenants requiring us to achieve a certain minimum adjusted EBITDA during each quarter through the first quarter of Fiscal 2019.
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table is based on the closing stock price of the common stock on December 29, 2017, which was $3.55.
The Company is exposed to non-performance risk from the counterparties in its derivative instruments.
In the second quarter of Fiscal 2018, Management completed a plan to sell the Company's current headquarters' building and adjacent vacant land and move to another local facility that better aligns to the needs of the business.
Under the Amended Credit Agreement, the Company is no longer permitted to repurchase common stock through its repurchase program but is allowed to repurchase a limited amount of shares for tax payments related to the vesting of certain restricted stock units and performance shares, as applicable.
These reclassifications had no effect on reported net income (loss), comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, total assets or total stockholders' equity.
The Company provides for income taxes at the end of each interim period based on the estimated effective tax rate adjusted for certain discrete items for the full fiscal year.
As of December 31, 2017, 1,107,149 shares were available under the most recent repurchase programs.
These assets, all of which are Property, plant and equipment, are presented as "Assets held for sale" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.


item2.txt
The Company will continue to incur costs associated with the U.S.-based ERP project that will have a negative impact on our profits and cash flows.
Additional risk factors are included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for Fiscal 2018.
Company management continues to review initiatives to align costs with revenue to improve profitability.
At December 31, 2017, the Company's total backlog, which relates primarily to Services, was $344,463, of which $232,968 is expected to be completed within the next twelve months.
Total Operating loss margin was 4.8%, a decrease compared to 0.2% in the same period last year.
The Company expects to use the funds that were previously available for stock repurchases to supplement spending for our previously announced U.S.-based ERP project and to develop and implement growth initiatives for the Company, both of which we believe will create long-term shareholder value.
In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in its efforts to limit the remedies of the lenders in the event of such default.
The overall effects of inflation on the Company have been nominal.
The Company’s fiscal year ends on March 31.
See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part I of this Quarterly Report for additional information.
Net cash used for operating activities was $43,132, due primarily to Net loss of $49,085, inclusive of non-cash charges, cash outflows of $19,759 and $14,701 for All other liabilities and Costs in excess of billings, respectively, partially offset by cash inflows of $5,821 and $4,021 for Accounts receivable and Accounts payable, respectively, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $24,734 in the same period last year, due primarily to Net loss of $5,261, inclusive of non-cash charges, cash outflows of $8,953 for Costs in excess of billings, partially offset by cash inflows of $6,172 for Inventories.


item3.txt
Intercompany sales to subsidiaries are generally denominated in the subsidiaries’ local currency.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company had open foreign currency contracts in Australian and Canadian dollars, Danish krone, Euros, Mexican pesos, Norwegian kroner, British pounds sterling, Swedish krona, Swiss francs and Japanese yen.


item4.txt
Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company.


part2.txt
There can be no assurance that the Company will generate sufficient adjusted EBITDA during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2018 or in fiscal quarters thereafter in order to avoid a breach of the Amended Credit Agreement.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


