fls.txt



item1.txt
In May 2017, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that provides guidance about which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.
Additionally, even if system designers use our products in their systems, we cannot assure you that these systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant revenue from the sales of our products for those systems.
The update is intended to help companies evaluate whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.
The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
The indenture governing the Senior Notes also contains certain limited covenants restricting the Company’s ability to incur certain liens, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and merge or consolidate with any other entity or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the Company’s properties or assets to another person, which, in each case, are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, in March 2016, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors completed an investigation that generally included a review of certain revenue recognized in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, including transactions that would have, in the normal course of events and but for action by certain Marvell employees, been completed and recognized in a subsequent quarter (referred to internally as “pull-ins”), the accrual of a litigation reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and the stated belief by Marvell’s former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ownership of certain patent rights related to the Final-Level Cache invention and his later assignment of associated patent rights to Marvell.
Additionally, the Company incurred $2.9 million of equity issuance costs, which were recorded in additional paid-in capital in the condensed consolidated balance sheet.
As of November 3, 2018, contract liability balances are comprised of variable consideration estimated based on a portfolio basis using the expected value methodology based on analysis of historical data, current economic conditions, and contractual terms.
It also prohibits subsidiaries of the Company from incurring additional indebtedness, and requires the Company to comply with a leverage ratio financial covenant not to exceed 3 to 1 as of the end of any fiscal quarter.
Additionally, to the extent there is coverage of these claims, the insurers also may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters.
Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk.
In the opinion of management, the financial statements include all adjustments, including normal recurring adjustments and other adjustments, that are considered necessary for fair presentation of the Company’s financial position and results of operations.
As previously disclosed in our public filings, in March 2016, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors completed an investigation that generally included a review of certain revenue recognized in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2016 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, including transactions that would have, in the normal course of events and but for action by certain Marvell employees, been completed and recognized in a subsequent quarter (referred to internally as “pull-ins”), the accrual of a litigation reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, and the stated belief by Marvell’s former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ownership of certain patent rights related to the Final-Level Cache invention and his later assignment of associated patent rights to Marvell.
Variable consideration estimates consist of the estimated returns, price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs.
The Company does not believe that the measurement period adjustments had a material impact on its consolidated statements of operations, balance sheets or cash flows in any periods previously reported.
Ineffectiveness is recorded in interest and other income, net.


item2.txt
Our income tax benefit for the nine months ended November 3, 2018 was $16.9 million compared to tax expense of $8.0 million for the nine months ended October 28, 2017.
Our net revenue for the nine months ended November 3, 2018 increased by $327.2 million compared to net revenue for the nine months ended October 28, 2017.
In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications.
These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there.
We are also subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, including gold and copper, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products.
These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.
There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or effect share repurchases in any particular amount or at all, and statutory requirements under Bermuda Law may require us to defer payment of declared dividends or suspend share repurchases.
The HDD industry is intensely competitive and technology inflections are happening rapidly.
We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results.
In addition, the development of new silicon devices is highly complex and, due to supply chain cross-dependencies and other issues, we may experience delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products.
While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries.


