fls.txt



item1.txt
We had approximately $5.2 billion of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet as of November 2, 2019, as well as $0.6 billion of goodwill that was reclassified to assets held for sale in connection with the May 2019 announcement for the divestiture of the Wi-Fi business.
 We have determined that our business operates as a single operating segment with two primary components (Storage and Networking), which we have concluded can be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of testing goodwill impairment.
In addition, the process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources.
An additional $90 million in cash will be paid if certain conditions are satisfied within the next 15 months.
We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace.
The estimated aggregate fair value of the 2023 Notes and 2028 Notes was $1.1 billion at November 2, 2019 and February 2, 2019, and were classified as Level 2 as there are quoted prices from less active markets for the notes.
Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the indenture for the Senior Notes and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness.
For fiscal year 2019, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the Aquantia acquisition included (i) the purchase accounting effect of inventories acquired of $18.3 million (ii) transaction costs of $12.7 million, and (iii) share-based compensation expense of $3.5 million.
Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy.
This export restriction was effective during our second and third quarters of fiscal year 2020, limiting revenue from these customers.
During the three and nine months ended November 3, 2018, the Company recognized $20.9 million and $29.8 million of interest expense in its condensed consolidated statements of operations related to interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of discount associated with the outstanding Term Loan and Senior Notes, respectively.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing.
In accordance with the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated May 6, 2019, by and among the Company and Aquantia (the “Aquantia merger agreement”), the Company acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Aquantia (the “Aquantia shares”) for $13.25 per share in cash.
Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets for the three and nine months ended November 2, 2019 was $92.8 million and $253.5 million, respectively.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company settled with the SEC without admitting or denying the findings of the SEC, by consenting to the entry of an administrative order requiring the Company to cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act and Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, and 12b-20 thereunder.


item2.txt
Our income tax expense for the three months ended November 2, 2019 was $1.5 million compared to a tax expense of $9.3 million for the three months ended November 3, 2018.
See “Note 9 - Restructuring and Other Related Charges” for further information.
See “Note 9 - Restructuring and Other Related Charges” for further information.


item3.txt
LIBOR is expected to be phased out as a benchmark rate by the end of 2021.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures.
For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our customer’s product development processes, which may include extensive qualification and testing of components included in their products, including ours.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Senior Notes) or obtain additional financing.
There is significant doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, or hear actions brought in Bermuda against us or those persons based on those laws.
We routinely collect and store sensitive data in our information systems, including intellectual property and other proprietary information about our business and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners.
Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy.
In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years.
The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and infrastructure markets, is extremely competitive.
These transitions have required us to modify the manufacturing processes and to redesign some products, which has resulted in significant initial design and development costs.
Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and lower manufacturing yields, which are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct.


