fls.txt



item1.txt
Stock options granted pursuant to the QLogic 2005 Plan to employees have ten-year terms and generally vest over four years from the date of grant.
Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met.
In addition, this grouping includes a few legacy product lines in which the Company no longer invests, but will generate revenue for several years.
The Company’s products are generally subject to warranty, which provides for the estimated future costs of replacement upon shipment of the product.
Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the indenture for the Senior Notes and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness.
Ineffectiveness is recorded in interest and other income, net.
The Company also issued 1.1 million shares of the Company's common stock at $21.34 per share in exchange for Cavium employee accelerated awards on a 2.1757 to 1 basis as a part of the merger consideration.
Since the date of the acquisition, Cavium contributed $41.3 million of the consolidated net revenue for the three and six months ended August 4, 2018.
If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the notes) or obtain additional financing.
•unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all.
The equity related merger consideration resulted in increasing basic and diluted weighted average shares by 50.9 million weighted average shares for the three months ended August 4, 2018 and by 25.5 million weighted average shares for the six months ended August 4, 2018.
In addition, we have added two new senior executives in connection with our acquisition of Cavium.
For product revenue, the performance obligation is deemed to be the delivery of the product and therefore, the revenue is generally recognized upon shipment to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates.
We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers’ system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy.
In such event, we may not have sufficient available cash to repay such debt at the time it becomes due, or be able to refinance such debt on acceptable terms or at all.
While the individual members of our executive management team each have significant industry-related experience, they previously had not worked together as a group and it will take time for them to become an integrated management team.


item2.txt
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Tax Act”) was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
The decrease in accrued liabilities was driven by a reduction of accruals for restructuring expenses and rebate, offset by an increase related to technology licenses.
See “Note 4 - Debt” for further information.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries.
Our Bye-Laws contain change in corporate control provisions, which include authorizing the issuance of preferred shares without shareholder approval.
We do not know whether we will be granted waivers under, or amendments to, our Credit Agreement or to the Senior Notes if for any reason we are unable to meet these requirements, or whether we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
From January 29, 2017 through August 4, 2018, our common shares traded as low as $14.58 and as high as $25.18 per share.
These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.
If any of the members of our current management team were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors.
Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers’ representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products.
We would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) on average, the percentage of our assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% (determined on an average gross value basis).
•exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks.


