fls.txt



item1.txt
The impact on employee morale experienced in connection with our restructuring efforts in fiscal 2017 and 2018, which eliminated approximately 900 jobs worldwide, could make it more difficult for us to add to our workforce when needed due to speculation regarding our future restructuring activities.
In particular, litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.
We are organized under the laws of Bermuda.
In accordance with the practical expedients available in the guidance, the Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected duration of one year or less.
The Company is evaluating the effect this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements.
•our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel.
Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities.
Any such revisions or changes may be material.
In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do.
The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks.
We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results.
The share repurchase program will be subject to market conditions and other factors, and does not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of its common shares and the repurchase program may be extended, modified, suspended or discontinued at any time.
It is a manufacturer of high speed transceivers which includes copper and optical physical layer products.
As of May 4, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.
As a result, it may not be possible for our shareholders to affect service of process within the United States upon us, or to enforce against us in U.S. courts judgments based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States.


item2.txt
Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $571.9 million at May 4, 2019, which was slightly lower than our balance at our fiscal year ended February 2, 2019 of $582.4 million.
Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 80% of our net revenue in the three months ended May 4, 2019, and approximately 94% of net revenue in the three months ended May 5, 2018, respectively.
This increase was partially offset by decreased sales of our storage products and other products, which were down 12% and 2% respectively, compared to the three months ended May 5, 2018.


item3.txt
Foreign Currency Exchange Risk.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand.
See also, “Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us.”
Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties.
•exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks.
The foregoing restrictions could limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in market conditions or our capital needs.
This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction.
It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers.
These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, destructive or inadequate code, malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, internal malfeasance or other events.
Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers.
Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results.


