fls.txt



item1.txt
The amount of anti-dilutive potential shares from share-based awards was 5.2 million weighted average shares outstanding and 9.2 million weighted average shares outstanding for the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
This could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow.
Control passes to the distributor upon shipment, and terms and payment by the Company’s distributors is not contingent on resale of the product.
The income tax provision for the three months ended May 5, 2018 included the current income tax expense of $3.0 million, a net increase in unrecognized tax benefits of $0.3 million, and an expense of $0.4 million related to other discrete items recorded in the quarter.
We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel.
The benefits we expect to realize from the proposed transaction will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the businesses successfully and efficiently.
During fiscal 2016 and continuing through the third quarter of fiscal 2018, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which have since been remediated.
These funds are primarily held in China, Israel and the United States.
•our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel.
The presentation and disclosure requirements will be applied prospectively.
See "Note 3 - Revenue" for additional information on the impact of the adoption of the new standard on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
SSD customers may develop their own controllers, which could pose a challenge to our market share in the SSD space.
On the date of initial adoption, the Company removed the deferred income on component sales made to distributors and recorded estimates of the accruals for variable consideration through a cumulative adjustment to retained earnings.
Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or other developed countries.
The regulatory approvals required in connection with the proposed transaction may not be obtained or may contain materially burdensome conditions.
These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there.


item2.txt
Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 94% of our net revenue in the three months ended May 5, 2018 and April 29, 2017, respectively.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("2017 Tax Act") was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
We had $106.6 million of net income, adjusted for $38.2 million of non-cash items, which was primarily driven by depreciation and amortization of $20.7 million, share-based compensation expense of $24.0 million, the amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets of $1.1 million, and gain on the sale of discontinued operations of $8.2 million.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming.
Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies.
Any delay in completing the Merger may significantly reduce the benefits expected to be obtained from the Merger.
Furthermore, under the Israeli Encouragement law of “approved or benefited enterprise,” our subsidiary in Israel, Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd., is entitled to, and has certain existing programs that qualify as, approved and benefited tax programs that include reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income through fiscal 2027.
If any of the members of our current management team were to leave our company unexpectedly, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors.
Such U.S. holder could also be subject to a special interest charge with respect to any such gain or excess distribution.
We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments.
Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs, or where our third-party manufacturers have significant costs, will increase the cost of such operations which could harm our results of operations.
Marvell and Cavium cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied.
Furthermore, in prior years, we have entered into agreements in certain foreign jurisdictions that if certain criteria are met, the foreign jurisdiction will provide a more favorable tax rate than their current statutory rate.


