fls.txt



item1.txt
Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives.
The standard eliminates the threshold for initial recognition in current GAAP and reflects an entity’s current estimate of all expected credit losses.
This transition may result in longer qualification cycles and lower yields.
Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets.
These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results.
The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks.
As of August 3, 2019, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.
Some of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments that the Company could be obligated to make.
If we were classified as a “passive foreign investment company” or “PFIC” under section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds ordinary shares, such U.S. holder generally would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares and on any “excess distributions” (including constructive distributions) received on the ordinary shares.
On June 22, 2018, the Company completed a public offering of (i) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.200% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “2023 Notes”) and (ii) $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.875% Senior Notes due 2028 (the “2028 Notes” and, together with the 2023 Notes, the “Senior Notes”).
•customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation sold control of a portion of its semiconductor business in 2018), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders.
Net revenue from our two largest customers represented 20% and 28% of our net revenue for the three months ended August 3, 2019 and August 4, 2018, respectively.
Accordingly, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy.
The Company evaluates, at least on a quarterly basis, developments in its Legal Matters that could affect the amount of any accrual, as well as any developments that would result in a loss contingency to become both probable and reasonably estimable.
In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming.


item2.txt
The decrease was primarily due to $24.7 million of lower employee personnel-related costs.
On May 29, 2019, we announced our intent to sell our Wi-Fi connectivity business to NXP for $1.76 billion in cash.
Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
This export restriction was implemented in the second week of our second quarter of fiscal year 2020, limiting revenue from that customer to shipments during a short period during the quarter.
Our technology is transitioning from planar to FINFET transistors.
This creates the risk that our customers may decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand.
These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there.
 We have identified that our business operates as a single operating segment with two primary components (Storage and Networking), which we have concluded can be aggregated into a single reporting unit for purposes of testing goodwill impairment.
In addition, unfavorable developments with evolving laws and regulations worldwide related to 5G may limit global adoption, impede our strategy, and negatively impact our long-term expectations in this area.
In addition, our more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production expenses.
Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty.
In addition, some of these competitors may use their market power to dissuade our customers from purchasing from us.
The Credit Agreement and the indenture for the Senior Notes each contains a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business.


