fls.txt



item1.txt
ProSeries and Lacerte are our leading tax preparation offerings for professional accountants.
We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services.
Funds held for customers represent cash held on behalf of our customers that is invested in cash and cash equivalents and investment grade available-for-sale securities, restricted for use solely for the purpose of satisfying amounts we owe on behalf of our customers, such as direct deposit payroll funds and payroll taxes.
We face significant risks in maintaining adequate service levels during these peak periods when we derive a substantial portion of our overall revenue from the tax businesses.
The incentives we have available to attract, retain, and motivate employees provided by our equity awards may become less effective, and if we were to issue significant equity to attract additional employees, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted.
We do not expect that any other recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a significant effect on our financial statements.
The terms of the settlement are not material to our consolidated financial statements.
In addition, the increased availability of data obtained as a result of breaches of third-party offerings could make our own products more vulnerable to fraudulent activity.
The guidance allows us to record provisional amounts to the extent a reasonable estimate can be made and provides us with up to one year from enactment date to finalize accounting for the impacts of the 2017 Tax Act.
We use commercially available security technologies and security and business controls to limit access to and use of such sensitive data.
We have determined that the enhancements and connected services included in our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products are immaterial within the context of the contract.
Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers.
We have included all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring items, which we considered necessary for a fair presentation of our financial results for the interim periods presented.
Our chief operating decision maker organizes and manages our business primarily on the basis of product and service offerings.
We recognize revenue for the software license and version protection at the time they are delivered and recognize revenue for support and connected services over the subscription term as the services are provided.
The effective date of the tax rate change was January 1, 2018.


item2.txt
Our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal 2018 was approximately 95%.
Cost of service and other revenue as a percentage of service and other revenue was consistent in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared with the same period of fiscal 2018.
As described in Note 7 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report, during the first three months of fiscal 2019 we continued to repurchase shares of our common stock under repurchase programs that our Board of Directors has authorized.
On February 1, 2016 we entered into a master credit agreement with certain institutional lenders for a five-year credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion.


item3.txt
We do not hold derivative financial instruments or European sovereign debt in our portfolio of investments.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, expenses associated with the initiatives and inadequate return on investments.
Revenue from income tax preparation products and services is heavily concentrated during November through April.
In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or may uncover problems with our existing technology systems.
In spite of settled law in the U.S., claims are made against online services companies by parties who disagree with the content.
Adverse global economic events have caused, and could, in the future, cause disruptions and volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and could impact consumer and small business spending.
•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries.
Online offerings, desktop software and mobile technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions.
We may not have sufficient lead time to build systems and processes to collect these taxes properly, or at all.


