fls.txt



item1.txt
Notes receivable consist of term loans to small businesses and are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets.
In the past we have satisfied option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting under our employee equity incentive plans by reissuing treasury shares, and we may do so again in the future.
We use the specific identification method to compute gains and losses on investments.
The following table summarizes financial assets and financial liabilities that we measured at fair value on a recurring basis at the dates indicated, classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy described above.
Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer.
Although we have strict standards for our suppliers and business partners to comply with the law and company policies regarding workplace and employment practices, data use and security, environmental compliance, intellectual property licensing and other applicable regulatory and compliance requirements, we cannot control their day-to-day practices.
In the past we have satisfied option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting under our employee equity incentive plans by reissuing treasury shares, and we may do so again in the future.
We regularly invest resources to update and improve our internal information technology systems and software platforms.
Our chief operating decision maker organizes and manages our business primarily on the basis of product and service offerings.
Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended April 30, 2018 have been restated to reflect the full retrospective application of ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).” See Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Accounting Standards Recently Adopted,” for more information.
Unallocated corporate items also include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges.
Our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products include a software license as well as enhancements and connected services.
These judgments and estimates include identifying performance obligations in the contract, determining whether the performance obligations are distinct, determining the standalone sales price (SSP) for each distinct performance obligation, determining the timing of revenue recognition for distinct performance obligations and estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price.
We depend on a number of third parties, including vendors, developers and partners who are critical to our business.
Unallocated corporate items also include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.


item2.txt
Total net revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased $360 million or 12% while total operating expenses for the quarter increased $128 million or 13%.
Cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue was consistent in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2019 compared with the same periods of fiscal 2018.
As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important.
The outstanding balance is secured by cash and loans to qualified small businesses totaling $76 million.


item3.txt
The functional currencies of our international operating subsidiaries are generally the local currencies.


item4.txt



part2.txt
These include changes to our offerings that result in the inclusion or exclusion of ongoing services; changes in product pricing strategies or product sales mix; the timing of the availability of federal and state tax forms from taxing agencies and the ability of those agencies to receive electronic tax return submissions; changes in customer behavior; and the timing of our discontinuation of support for older product offerings.
In addition, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults.
Any adverse changes by these third parties could adversely affect our financial results.
In addition to any losses that may result from such fraud, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence by our customers or by governmental agencies in our ability to prevent fraudulent activity that is perpetrated through our offerings may seriously harm our business and damage our brand.
Our tax offerings have significant seasonal patterns.
In addition, if our practices are not consistent with new interpretations of existing laws, we may become subject to lawsuits, penalties, and other liabilities that did not previously apply.
Government funded services that curtail or eliminate the role of taxpayers in preparing their own taxes could potentially have material and adverse revenue implications.
Although we typically fund our acquisitions through cash available from operations, if we were to use debt to fund acquisitions or for other purposes, our interest expense and leverage would increase significantly, and if we were to issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders’ percentage ownership and earnings per share would be diluted.


