fls.txt



item1.txt
The total costs and expenses for fiscal 2015 included goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $297 million, of which $149 million was classified as discontinued operations.
The term loan accrues interest at rates that are equal to, at our election, either Bank of America's alternate base rate plus a margin that ranges from 0.125% to 0.875% or LIBOR plus a margin that ranges from 1.125% to 1.875%.
Financial Instruments - In June 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, “Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326).” This new standard requires the measurement of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at the reporting date based on historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
As we expand our products and services and revise our business models, both domestically and internationally, we may become subject to additional government regulation or increased regulatory scrutiny.
We do not expect the deferral of incremental commission costs to be material.
In addition, it is more likely than not that we will not be required to sell them before recovery at par, which may be at maturity.
At April 30, 2018, we had $1.6 billion in goodwill and $68 million in net acquired intangible assets on our balance sheet, both of which may be subject to impairment charges in the future.
As we expand our products and services and revise our business models, both domestically and internationally, we may become subject to additional government regulation or increased regulatory scrutiny.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2017.
As the accessibility of stolen identity information increases, we may experience additional instances of unauthorized and illegal access to our systems using our customers’ stolen identity information in the future.
These controls include comparison to pricing provided by a secondary pricing service or investment manager, validation of pricing sources and models, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period price fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate.
We recorded a provisional charge of $39 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 related to the re-measurement of certain deferred tax balances.
The incentives we have available to attract, retain, and motivate employees provided by our equity awards may become less effective, and if we were to issue significant equity to attract additional employees, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted.
The total amount of our unrecognized tax benefits at July 31, 2017 was $61 million.
During the nine months ended April 30, 2018 we borrowed $800 million under this revolving credit facility and at April 30, 2018 no amounts were outstanding.


item2.txt
In recent years the widespread availability of the Internet, the emergence of mobile devices, and the explosion of social media have accelerated the pace of change and revolutionized the way that people throughout the world manage important financial tasks.
Online Services revenue increased 27% in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 and increased 21% in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due to customer growth in online payroll and payments.
Our Consumer offerings have significant seasonal patterns.
Our primary uses of cash have been for research and development programs, selling and marketing activities, capital projects, acquisitions of businesses, debt service costs and debt repayment, repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs, and the payment of cash dividends.
The information below is organized in accordance with our three reportable segments.


item3.txt
We do not hold derivative financial instruments or European sovereign debt in our portfolio of investments.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers.
Total costs and expenses in these categories were $14 million in fiscal 2017; $34 million in fiscal 2016; and $339 million in fiscal 2015, of which $149 million was classified as discontinued operations.
Although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware across platforms, it is increasingly affecting our offerings because cyber-criminals tend to focus their efforts on well-known offerings that are popular among customers and hold sensitive information and we expect them to continue to do so.
Many of the risks associated with usage of open source may not be eliminated, and may, if not properly addressed, harm our business.
Poor economic conditions and high unemployment have caused, and could in the future cause, a significant decrease in the number of tax returns filed, which may have a significant effect on the number of tax returns we prepare and file.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In addition, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults.
Although we typically fund our acquisitions through cash available from operations, if we were to use debt to fund acquisitions or for other purposes, our interest expense and leverage would increase significantly, and if we were to issue equity securities as consideration in an acquisition, current shareholders’ percentage ownership and earnings per share would be diluted.


