fls.txt



item1.txt
We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet existing needs, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our business and customers.
As of January 31, 2019 and July 31, 2018, the deferred revenue balance related to performance obligations that will be satisfied after 12 months was $3 million and $3 million, respectively, and is included in other long-term obligations on our consolidated balance sheets.
Our prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets balances increased due to the capitalized costs to obtain a contract.
At January 31, 2019, we had authorization from our Board of Directors to expend up to an additional $3.0 billion for stock repurchases.
The terms of the settlement are not material to our consolidated financial statements.
Due to the seasonality of our consumer tax offerings, one large retailer accounted for 13% of gross accounts receivable at January 31, 2019.
We must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers.
We provide capital to small businesses, which exposes us to certain risk, and may cause us material financial or reputational harm.
We rely on internal systems and external systems maintained by manufacturers, distributors and other service providers to take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests and host certain online activities.
Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings.
In all periods presented, cash equivalents consist primarily of time deposits, savings deposit accounts, and money market funds, investments consist primarily of investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities, and funds held for customers consist of cash and cash equivalents and investment-grade available-for-sale debt securities.
In February 2019 our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.47 per share of outstanding common stock payable on April 18, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on April 10, 2019.
The loss rate and underlying model are updated periodically to reflect actual loan performance and changes in assumptions.
All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays.
Judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the related updates and recognized over time.
All of our tax products and many of our non-tax products have rigid development timetables that increase the risk of errors in our products and the risk of launch delays.


item2.txt
Because of the seasonality of our Strategic Partner revenue, we do not believe that revenue for the first six months of fiscal 2019 is indicative of revenue trends for the current fiscal year.
We monitor counterparty risk associated with the institutional lenders that are providing the credit facility.
At January 31, 2019, our cash, cash equivalents and investments totaled $1.3 billion, a decrease of $383 million from July 31, 2018 due to the factors discussed under “Statements of Cash Flows” below.
As discussed in “Executive Overview – Industry Trends and Seasonality” earlier in this Item 2, our business is subject to significant seasonality.
Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $1.3 billion at January 31, 2019.


item3.txt
If the Federal Reserve Target Rate had increased by 25 basis points from the level of January 31, 2019, the value of our investments at that date would have decreased by approximately $1 million.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Some of these claims are the subject of pending litigation against us and against some of our customers.
Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands.
Even if our products are not affected directly by such incidents, they could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from adopting our products and services or lead customers to cease using online and connected software products to transact financial business altogether.
In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on offerings that do not ultimately succeed in their markets.
Our repurchase programs may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value.
Also, the amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchase programs may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes and because of changes in cash flows, tax laws, and the market price of our common stock.
Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies.
We may use the proceeds of any advances against the credit facility for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and share repurchases.


