fls.txt



item1.txt
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017 and reduces the U.S. statutory federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%.
Unallocated corporate items also include amortization of acquired technology, amortization of other acquired intangible assets, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges.
We rely on third-party intellectual property in our products and services.
We have eliminated all significant intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation.
Under the new standard, we will recognize revenue for the desktop tax preparation software license and related tax form updates as they are delivered.
If we were to recognize these net benefits, our income tax expense would reflect a favorable net impact of $38 million.
Current U.S. laws that prohibit copying give us only limited practical protection from software piracy and the laws of many other countries provide very little protection.
In fiscal 2015 Intuit was contacted by certain state and federal regulatory authorities in connection with inquiries regarding an increase during the 2015 tax season in attempts by criminals using stolen identity information to file fraudulent tax returns and claim refunds.
We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past.
We have eliminated all significant intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation.
Due to the uncertain international environment, we could face additional compliance obligations that could cause us to incur costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.
Certain of our services include content generated by users of our online services.
We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
Our acquisitions have resulted in significant expenses, including amortization and impairment of acquired technology and other acquired intangible assets, and impairment of goodwill.
Intuit helps consumers, small businesses, and the self-employed prosper by delivering financial management and compliance products and services.


item2.txt
Consumer segment operating income as a percentage of related revenue decreased slightly in the first six months of fiscal 2018 compared to the same period of fiscal 2017.
Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $726 million at January 31, 2018, none of those funds were restricted, and approximately 66% of those funds were located in the U.S. Our unsecured revolving credit facility is available to us for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions and stock repurchases.
We intend to repay the outstanding balance during the third quarter of fiscal 2018.
We recorded a tax provision of $40 million on income of $19 million for the three months ended January 31, 2018.
We intend to permanently reinvest a significant portion of our earnings from foreign operations, and we currently do not anticipate that we will need funds generated from foreign operations to fund our domestic operations.


item3.txt
We are also exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates as they affect our $1 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and $500 million unsecured term loan.


item4.txt



part2.txt
•in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.
Although we do not believe that any of this activity is uniquely targeted at our products or business, this type of fraudulent activity may adversely impact our tax, payroll, and payments businesses.
The timing of the formal annual test may result in charges to our statement of operations in our fourth fiscal quarter that may not have been reasonably foreseen in prior periods.
Our operations process a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis, especially in our payroll and payments businesses.
Our technologies, systems, and networks, and those of our third parties and customers have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs and other information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our customers’ or employees’ sensitive and personal information and data or Intuit's sensitive business data.
In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or may uncover problems with our existing technology systems.
•in the case of foreign acquisitions and investments, the impact of particular economic, tax, currency, political, legal and regulatory risks associated with specific countries.
Poor economic conditions and high unemployment have caused, and could in the future cause, a significant decrease in the number of tax returns filed, which may have a significant effect on the number of tax returns we prepare and file.


