fls.txt



item1.txt
We recorded a $35 million tax benefit on pretax income of $22 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019.
Our technologies, systems, and networks have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, social engineering, malicious software programs, insider threats, and other cybersecurity incidents that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, use, loss or destruction of sensitive and personal data of our customers and members of our workforce, or Intuit's sensitive business data or cause temporary or sustained unavailability of our software and systems.
Net of related deferred tax assets, unrecognized tax benefits were $75 million at that date.
These judgments and estimates include identifying performance obligations, determining if the performance obligations are distinct, determining the standalone sales price (SSP) and timing of revenue recognition for each distinct performance obligation, and estimating variable consideration to be included in the transaction price.
We have experienced such instances in the past and as the accessibility of stolen identity information increases, generally, we may experience further instances of unauthorized access to our systems through the use of stolen identity information of our customers or members of our workforce in the future.
Although we have established internal review and approval processes to mitigate these risks, we may not be sure that all open source software is submitted for approval prior to use in our products.
There have been no other changes to our significant accounting policies during the first three months of fiscal 2019.
Revenue from our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products was $27 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and $29 million for the three months ended October 31, 2018.
We intend to vigorously defend against the legal proceedings and cooperate in the investigations.
Actual margins under either election will be based on our senior debt credit ratings.
•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries.
Although we expend significant resources to create security protections designed to shield this data against potential theft and security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security.
Our variable lease payments generally relate to amounts paid to lessors for common area maintenance under our real estate leases.
Legal and compliance risks arise from change in the government and regulatory environment, including complex and evolving regulations relating privacy and data security; potential litigation; regulatory inquiries and intellectual property infringement claims.
However, its continuation depends on a number of factors, including increasing public awareness of and access to the free program, as well as continued government support.
Legal and compliance risks arise from change in the government and regulatory environment, including complex and evolving regulations relating privacy and data security; potential litigation; regulatory inquiries and intellectual property infringement claims.


item2.txt
We are investing significant management attention and resources in our information technology infrastructure and in our privacy and security capabilities, and we expect to continue to do so in the future.
International total net revenue was approximately 5% of consolidated total net revenue for all periods presented.
Under this agreement we may, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions increase commitments under the term loan in an amount not to exceed $400 million in the aggregate.
Our cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $2.3 billion at October 31, 2019.
Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet anticipated seasonal working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements, contractual obligations, commitments, debt service requirements, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations for at least the next 12 months.


item4.txt



part2.txt
We use commercially available security technologies and security and business controls to limit access to and use of such sensitive data.
Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of the brands and could also reduce our stock price.
The online tax preparation, payroll administration and online payments industries have been experiencing an increasing amount of fraudulent activities by third parties, and those fraudulent activities are becoming increasingly sophisticated.
The systems supporting our business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are sometimes difficult to scale.
We rely on our network and data center infrastructure and internal technology systems for many of our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets and impairment charges may cause significant fluctuation in our net income.
In particular, we have relationships with banks, credit unions and other financial institutions that support certain critical services we offer to our customers.
We are subject to various legal proceedings (including class action lawsuits), claims and regulatory inquiries that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional claims and inquiries may arise in the future.
Even if we are able to attract new users through these mobile offerings, the amount of revenue that we derive per user from mobile offerings may be less than the revenue that we have historically derived from users of personal computers.


