•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act); •property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi, which is our largest and most complex acquisition ever.
The integration process for our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, wired and wireless connectivity products, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, timing systems, memory products and Flash-IP licensing.
Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test.
The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry.
This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin.•changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Act); •property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
On May 29, 2018, we completed our acquisition of Microsemi, which is our largest and most complex acquisition ever.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of Microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.