fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Microchip Technology Incorporated and its majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries (the Company).
It is suggested that these condensed consolidated financial statements be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
As further discussed in Note 3, on May 29, 2018, the Company completed its acquisition of Microsemi Corporation (Microsemi) and the Company's fiscal 2019 financial results include Microsemi's results beginning as of such acquisition date.
The results of operations for the three and six months ended September 30, 2019 are not indicative of the results that may be expected for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020 or for any other period.
The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its condensed consolidated financial statements.
The Company paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of the Company, was approximately $8.24 billion.
In addition to the consideration transferred, the Company recognized in its consolidated financial statements $3.23 billion in liabilities of Microsemi consisting of debt, taxes payable and deferred, restructuring, and contingent and other liabilities of which $2.06 billion of existing debt was paid off.
The Company financed the purchase price using approximately $8.10 billion of borrowings consisting of $3.10 billion under its amended and restated revolving line of credit (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), $3.00 billion of term loans ("Term Loan Facility") provided under the Company's amended and restated credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), and $2.00 billion in newly issued senior secured notes.
The Company incurred $22.0 million in acquisition costs related to the acquisition.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting, with the Company identified as the acquirer, and the operating results of Microsemi have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements as of the closing date of the acquisition.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the aggregate amount of consideration paid by the Company was allocated to Microsemi's net tangible assets and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of May 29, 2018.
The excess of the purchase price over the value of the net tangible assets and intangible assets was recorded to goodwill.
None of the goodwill related to the Microsemi acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.
The table below represents the allocation of the purchase price to the net assets acquired based on their estimated fair values, as well as the associated estimated useful lives of the acquired intangible assets (in millions).


item2.txt
We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement.
•Our ability to collect accounts receivable.
We disclaim any obligation to update the information contained in any forward-looking statement.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document.
We paid an aggregate of approximately $8.19 billion in cash to the stockholders of Microsemi.
The total consideration transferred in the acquisition, including approximately $53.9 million of non-cash consideration for the exchange of certain share-based payment awards of Microsemi for stock awards of Microchip, was approximately $8.24 billion.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
•general economic, industry or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally, including ongoing uncertainty surrounding Brexit and its implications; •changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business including the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Act"); •property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance.
We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees.
There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems.
Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition.
We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies.
We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of Microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction.
To fund our acquisition of Microsemi, we used a significant portion of our cash balances and incurred approximately $8.10 billion of additional debt.
We may also have continuing obligations for pre-existing liabilities related to the former employees, assets or businesses.


