We have entered into lead forward purchase contracts and foreign exchange forward and purchased option contracts to manage the risk associated with our exposures to fluctuations resulting from changes in raw material costs and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company’s agreements are with creditworthy financial institutions. Those contracts that result in a liability position at September 29, 2019 are $0.8 million (pre-tax). Those contracts that result in an asset position at September 29, 2019 are $1.5 million (pre-tax) and the vast majority of these will settle within one year. The impact on the Company due to nonperformance by the counterparties has been evaluated and not deemed material.
For the remaining two quarters of this fiscal year, we believe approximately 64% of the cost of our lead requirements is known. This takes into account the hedge contracts in place at September 29, 2019, lead purchased by September 29, 2019 that will be reflected in future costs under our FIFO accounting policy, and the benefit from our lead tolling program. 
We estimate that a 10% increase in our cost of lead would have increased our cost of goods sold by approximately $15 million and $32 million, in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2020.
We manufacture and assemble our products globally in the Americas, EMEA and Asia. Approximately 40% of our sales and expenses are transacted in foreign currencies. Our sales revenue, production costs, profit margins and competitive position are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we manufacture or purchase goods relative to the strength of the currencies in countries where our products are sold. Additionally, as we report our financial statements in U.S. dollars, our financial results are affected by the strength of the currencies in countries where we have operations relative to the strength of the U.S. dollar. The principal foreign currencies in which we conduct business are the Euro, Swiss franc, British pound, Polish zloty, Chinese renminbi and Mexican peso.
We hedge approximately 5% - 10% of the nominal amount of our known foreign exchange transactional exposures. We primarily enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of the variation of non-functional currency denominated receivables and payables. The vast majority of such contracts are for a period not extending beyond one year. 
At September 29, 2019 and September 30, 2018, we estimate that an unfavorable 10% movement in the exchange rates would have adversely changed our hedge valuations by approximately $3.5 million and $2.5 million, respectively.
