Market Risks
We have entered into lead forward purchase contracts and foreign exchange forward and purchased option contracts to manage the risk associated with our exposures to fluctuations resulting from changes in raw material costs and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company’s agreements are with creditworthy financial institutions. Those contracts that result in a liability position at September 30, 2018 are $4.3 million (pre-tax). Those contracts that result in an asset position at September 30, 2018 are $0.1 million (pre-tax) and the vast majority of these will settle within one year. The impact on the Company due to nonperformance by the counterparties has been evaluated and not deemed material.
Interest Rate Risks
Commodity Cost Risks – Lead Contracts
We estimate that a 10% increase in our cost of lead would have increased our cost of goods sold by approximately $18 million and $36 million, in the second quarter and six months of fiscal 2019.
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks
We quantify and monitor our global foreign currency exposures. Our largest foreign currency exposure is from the purchase and conversion of U.S. dollar based lead costs into local currencies in Europe. Additionally, we have currency exposures from intercompany financing and intercompany and third party trade transactions. On a selective basis, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts and purchase option 
We hedge approximately 10% - 15% of the nominal amount of our known foreign exchange transactional exposures. We primarily enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to reduce the earnings and cash flow impact of the variation of non-functional currency denominated receivables and payables. The vast majority of such contracts are for a period not extending beyond one year. 
Gains and losses resulting from hedging instruments offset the foreign exchange gains or losses on the underlying assets and liabilities being hedged. The maturities of the forward exchange contracts generally coincide with the settlement dates of the related transactions. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are recognized in the same period as gains and losses on the hedged items. We also selectively hedge anticipated transactions that are subject to foreign exchange exposure, primarily with foreign currency exchange contracts, which are designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with Topic 815 - Derivatives and Hedging.
At September 30, 2018 and October 1, 2017, we estimate that an unfavorable 10% movement in the exchange rates would have adversely changed our hedge valuations by approximately $2.5 million and $3.8 million, respectively.
Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the total consideration for the Transaction is $750 million, which consists of $650 million in cash, to be funded using existing cash and credit facilities, and $100 million in shares of our common stock, at a per share price based on the thirty-day volume weighted average stock price of our common stock at the closing of the Transaction (the “Closing VWAP”). The equity component of total consideration may be decreased (and the cash component correspondingly increased) (i) at the election of the Sellers if the Closing VWAP is greater than $95.00, or (ii) at the election of EnerSys if the Closing VWAP is less than $65.00. Assuming no adjustment in the mix of total consideration based on the Closing VWAP, EnerSys common stock issued at the closing of the Transactions is expected to represent approximately 3% of its issued and outstanding shares.
Upon the closing of the Transaction, EnerSys will enter into five-year Non-Compete and Restrictive Covenant Agreements with Fred Kaiser, the owner of ATS and ATL, and Grace Borsari, the owner of Altair Advanced Industries, Inc. The Transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including the receipt of governmental regulatory approvals and the proper conveyance of all required closing deliverables. The Transaction is expected to close within thirty (30) to sixty (60) days of signing, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions.
