Item 1A.Risk Factors
Expected combination benefits from the Transaction may not be fully-realized or realized within the expected time frame. 
In June 2016, voters in the United Kingdom approved the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union (commonly
referred to as “Brexit”). In March 2017, the UK government initiated the exit process under Article 50 of the Treaty of the European Union,
commencing a period of up to two years for the United Kingdom and the other EU member states to negotiate the terms of the withdrawal. The British government and the European Union have now negotiated a withdrawal agreement, and the European Union has approved that agreement, but the British Parliament has not yet approved it. As a result, there remains considerable uncertainty around the withdrawal. Failure to obtain parliamentary approval of the negotiated withdrawal agreement would mean that the United Kingdom would leave the European Union on March 29, 2019, probably with no agreement (a so-called "hard Brexit"). The consequences for the economies of the European Union members and of the United Kingdom exiting the European Union are unknown and unpredictable, especially in the case of a hard Brexit. Depending on the final terms of Brexit, we could face new regulatory costs and challenges and greater volatility in the Pound Sterling and the euro. Any adjustments we make to our business and operations as of Brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. Any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Item 2.Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
The following table summarizes the number of shares of common stock we purchased from participants in our equity incentive plans as well as repurchases of common stock authorized by the Board of Directors. As provided by the Company’s equity incentive plans, (a) vested options outstanding may be exercised through surrender to the Company of option shares or vested options outstanding under the Company’s equity incentive plans to satisfy the applicable aggregate exercise price (and any withholding tax) required to be paid upon such exercise and (b) the withholding tax requirements related to the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units and market condition-based share units may be satisfied by the surrender of shares of the Company’s common stock.
Purchases of Equity Securities
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 Michael J. Schmidtlein
 Chief Financial Officer
