Item 2.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This section and other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (“Form 10-Q”) contain forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact.
Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Company’s actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q under the heading “Risk Factors,” which are incorporated herein by reference.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2017 (the “2017 Form 10-K”) filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q.
The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.
Available Information


Overview and Highlights

The Company designs, manufactures and markets mobile communication and media devices and personal computers, and sells a variety of related software, services, accessories, networking solutions and third-party digital content and applications.
The Company’s products and services include iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, Apple TV, a portfolio of consumer and professional software applications, iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS operating systems, iCloud, Apple Pay and a variety of accessory, service and support offerings.
The Company sells and delivers digital content and applications through the iTunes Store, App Store, Mac App Store, TV App Store, iBooks Store and Apple Music (collectively “Digital Content and Services”).
The Company sells its products worldwide through its retail stores, online stores and direct sales force, as well as through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and resellers.
In addition, the Company sells a variety of third-party Apple-compatible products, including application software and various accessories through its retail and online stores.
The foregoing statement regarding the Company’s expected gross margin percentage in the second quarter of 2018 is forward-looking and could differ from actual results.
The Company’s future gross margins can be impacted by multiple factors including, but not limited to, those set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q under the heading “Risk Factors” and those described in this paragraph.
In general, the Company believes gross margins will remain under downward pressure due to a variety of factors, including: continued industry-wide global product pricing pressures; increased competition; the Company’s ability to effectively stimulate demand for certain of its products; compressed product life cycles; product transitions; potential increases in the cost of components and outside manufacturing services; the Company’s ability to manage product quality and warranty costs effectively; and a potential shift in the Company’s sales mix towards products with lower gross margins.
In response to competitive pressures, the Company expects it will continue to take product pricing actions, which would adversely affect gross margins.
Due to the Company’s significant international operations, its financial condition and operating results, including gross margins, could be significantly affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.
Operating Expenses



Research and Development


Selling, General and Administrative

The growth in selling, general and administrative expense during the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same quarter in 2017 was driven primarily by higher spending on marketing and advertising, and an increase in infrastructure-related costs.
The foregoing statement regarding the Company’s expected effective tax rate during 2018 is forward-looking and could differ from actual results.
The Company’s future expected tax rate can be impacted by multiple factors including, but not limited to, those set forth in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q under the heading “Risk Factors.”

The Company’s effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2017 differed from the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate of 35% due primarily to certain undistributed foreign earnings, a substantial portion of which was generated by subsidiaries organized in Ireland, for which no U.S. taxes were provided when such earnings were intended to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S.
The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements.
