Item 4. Controls and Procedures.



Conclusions Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures



Management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), for the Company. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 30, 2017. Based upon this assessment, Management has concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 30, 2017 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to Management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.



Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting



There have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.



Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls



All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Because of its inherent limitations, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.



