Item 1. Financial Statements



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets (Unaudited)







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations (Unaudited)











See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.



American Software, Inc. and Subsidiaries



Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)







See accompanying notes to condensed consolidated financial statements—unaudited.



AMERICAN SOFTWARE, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES



Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements—Unaudited





A. Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Basis of Presentation



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles for interim financial information and the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 10-01 of Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required for complete consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of our management, these condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the Company’s financial position at January 31, 2019, results of operations for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 and cash flows for the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018. The Company’s results for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results expected for the full year. You should read these statements in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and management’s discussion and analysis and results of operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Annual Report”) for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2018. The terms “fiscal 2019” and “fiscal 2018” refer to our fiscal years ending April 30, 2019 and 2018, respectively.





Principles of Consolidation



The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of American Software, Inc. (“American Software”) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”). All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.



Recent Accounting Pronouncements



In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which replaced the previous revenue recognition guidance. The Company adopted the new revenue standard effective May 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective transition method. Under this method, the Company elected to apply the cumulative effect method to contracts that are not complete as of the adoption date. The Company’s total revenue impact is $1.2 million, with approximately 70% impacting fiscal 2019, which is the result of recognizing revenue for the license component of its term licenses and certain perpetual license contracts that were previously recognized over time due to the lack of vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value at the point in time at which control of the software license is transferred to the customer, rather than ratably over the term of the contract. In addition, under the new standard, the Company will capitalize a portion of sales commission expenses and recognize them ratably over the associated period of economic benefit, which the Company has determined to be six years, which will have an impact of $1.1 million. As a result, the cumulative impact due to the adoption of the new revenue standard on the opening consolidated balance sheet will be an increase in opening retained earnings, with a corresponding increase in contract assets and a decrease in deferred revenue.























In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases, which established new ASC Topic 842 (ASC 842), to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for leases with lease terms of more than 12 months.



Consistent with current GAAP, the recognition, measurement, and presentation of expenses and cash flows arising from a lease by a lessee primarily will depend on its classification as a finance or operating lease. However, unlike current GAAP, which requires only capital leases to be recognized on the balance sheet, the new standard will require both types of leases to be recognized on the balance sheet. ASC 842 also will require disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users better understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. These disclosures include qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the financial statements.



ASC 842 was previously required to be adopted using the modified retrospective approach. However, in July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-11, which allows for retrospective application with the recognition of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the period of adoption. Under this option, entities would not need to apply ASC 842 (along with its disclosure requirements) to the comparative prior periods presented.





B. Revenue Recognition



We recognize revenue when we transfer control of the promised goods or services to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. We derive our revenue from software licenses; maintenance services; consulting, implementation and training services; and Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”), which includes a subscription to our software as well as maintenance, hosting and managed services.





Step 1 – Identification of the Contract with the Customer



Step 2 – Identification of Promised Goods and Services and Evaluation of Whether the Promised Goods and Services are Distinct Performance Obligations



Step 3 – Determination of the Transaction Price



Step 4 – Allocation of the Transaction Price to Distinct Performance Obligations



Step 5 – Attribution of Revenue for Each Distinct Performance Obligation



Nature of Products and Services.



Licenses. Our perpetual software licenses provide the customer with a right to use the software as it exists at the time of purchase. We recognize revenue for distinct software licenses once the license period has begun and we have made the software available to the customer.



Our perpetual software licenses are sold with maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services.



Subscription Fees. Subscription fees include SaaS revenues for the right to use the software for a limited period of time in an environment hosted by the Company or by a third party. The customer accesses and uses the software on an as-needed basis over the Internet or via a dedicated line; however, the customer has no right to take delivery of the software without incurring a significant penalty. The underlying arrangements typically include a single fee for the service that is billed monthly, quarterly or annually. The Company’s SaaS solutions represent a series of distinct services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Revenue from a SaaS solution is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement.



Professional Services and other. Our services revenue consists of fees generated from consulting, implementation and training services, including reimbursements of out-pocket expenses in connection with our services. Services are typically optional to our customers, and are distinct from our software. Fees for our services are separately priced and are generally billed on an hourly basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are performed. We believe the output method of hours worked provides the best depiction of the transfer of our services since the customer is receiving the benefit from our services as the work is performed. The total amount of expense reimbursement included in professional services and other revenue was approximately $336,000 and $1.1 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, respectively, and approximately $419,000 and $1.4 million for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, respectively.



Maintenance. Revenue is derived from maintenance under which we provide customers with telephone consulting, product updates on a when and if available basis, and releases of new versions of products previously purchased by the customer, as well as error reporting and correction services. Maintenance for perpetual licenses is renewable, generally on an annual basis, at the option of the customer. Maintenance terms typically range from one to three years. Revenue related to maintenance is generally paid in advance and recognized ratably over the term of the agreement since the Company is standing ready to provide a series of maintenance services that are substantially the same each period over the term; therefore, time is the best measure of progress.



Indirect Channel Revenue. We record revenues from sales made through the indirect sales channels on a gross basis, because we control the goods or services and act as the principal in the transaction. In reaching this determination, we evaluated sales through our indirect channel on a case-by-case basis and considered a number of factors including indicators of control such as the party having the primary responsibility to provide specified goods or services, and the party having discretion in establishing prices.



Sales Taxes. We account for sales taxes collected from customers on a net basis.



Significant Judgments. Our contracts with customers typically contain promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Judgment is required to determine whether each product and service is considered to be a distinct performance obligation that should be accounted for separately under the contract. We allocate the transaction price to distinct performance obligations based on their relative standalone selling price (“SSP”). We estimate SSP primarily based on the prices charged to customers for products or services sold on a standalone basis, or by using information such as market conditions and other observable inputs. However, the selling prices of our software licenses are highly variable or uncertain. Therefore, we estimate SSP for software licenses using the residual approach, determined based on total transaction price less the SSP of other products and services promised in the contract. When 



performing relative selling price allocations, we use the contract price as the estimate of SSP if it falls within the Company’s range estimate of SSP since any point within the range would be a valid price point on a standalone basis. If the contract price falls outside of the range of SSP, the Company will use the nearest point in the SSP range in its relative selling price allocation.



Contract Balances. Timing of invoicing to customers may differ from timing of revenue recognition and these timing differences result in receivables, contract assets (unbilled accounts receivable), or contract liabilities (deferred revenue) on the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. Fees for our software licenses are generally due within 30 days of contract execution. We have an established history of collecting under the terms of our software license contracts without providing refunds or concessions to our customers. SaaS solutions and maintenance are typically billed in advance on a monthly, quarterly, or annual basis. Services are typically billed as performed. In instances where the timing of revenue recognition differs from the timing of invoicing, we have determined that our contracts generally do not include a significant financing component. The primary purpose of our invoicing terms is to provide customers with predictable ways to purchase our software and services, not to provide or receive financing. Additionally, we are applying the practical expedient to exclude any financing component from consideration for any contracts with payment terms of one year or less since we rarely offer terms extending beyond one year. The consideration in our customer contracts is fixed.



We have an unconditional right to consideration for all goods and services transferred to our customers. That unconditional right to consideration is reflected in billed and unbilled accounts receivable in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance sheet in accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606.



Deferred revenue consists of amounts collected prior to having completed the performance of maintenance, SaaS, hosting, and managed services. We typically invoice customers for cloud subscription and support fees in advance on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, with payment due at the start of the cloud subscription or support term. During the nine months ended January 31, 2019, we recognized $13 million of revenue that was included in the deferred revenue balance as of April 30, 2018, as adjusted for Topic 606, at the beginning of the period. 





Remaining Performance Obligations. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account under Topic 606. The transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied by transferring the promised good or service to the customer. The Company identifies and tracks the performance obligations at contract inception so that the Company can monitor and account for the performance obligations over the life of the contract. Remaining performance obligations represent the transaction price of orders for which products have not been delivered or services have not been performed. As of January 31, 2019, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was approximately $59 million. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately three-quarters of the remaining performance obligations over the next 12 months, with the remainder recognized thereafter.



Disaggregated Revenue. The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by geography, as it believes it best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.









-The Company does not evaluate a contract for a significant financing component if payment is expected within one year or less from the transfer of the promised items to the customer.



-The Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts for which the Company recognizes revenue at the amount to which it has the right to invoice for services performed (apply to time-and-material engagements).





a.The costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the Company can specifically identify.



b.The costs generate or enhance resources of the Company that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing to satisfy) performance obligations in the future.



c.The costs are expected to be recovered.



Certain sales commissions incurred by the Company were determined to be incremental costs to obtain the related contracts, which are deferred and amortized ratably over the economic benefit period. These deferred commission costs are classified as current or non-current based on the timing of when the Company expects to recognize the expense. The current and non-current portions of deferred commissions are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other long-term assets, respectively, in the Company’s condensed consolidated balance sheets. Total deferred commissions at January 31, 2019 and April 30, 2018 were $2.5 million and $2.5 million, respectively. Amortization of sales commissions was $0.1 million for the three months ended January 31, 2019 and $0.7 million for the nine months ended January 31, 2019, which is included in sales and marketing expense in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations. No impairment losses were recognized during the periods.



C. Declaration of Dividend Payable



On November 15, 2018, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock. The cash dividend is payable on February 22, 2019 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on February 8, 2019.



D. Earnings Per Common Share





For our basic earnings per share calculation, we use the “two-class” method. Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net earnings attributable to each class of common stock by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. All undistributed earnings are allocated evenly between Class A and B Common Shares in the earnings per share calculation to the extent that earnings equal or exceed $0.05 per share. This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares into Class A Common Shares.



The calculation of diluted earnings per share is similar to the calculation of basic earnings per share, except that the calculation includes the dilutive effect of the assumed exercise of options issuable under our stock incentive plans. For our diluted earnings per share calculation for Class A Common Shares, we use the “if-converted” method. This calculation assumes that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares (if antidilutive) and, as a result, assumes there are no holders of Class B Common Shares to participate in undistributed earnings.



For our diluted earnings per share calculation for Class B Common Shares, we use the “two-class” method. This calculation does not assume that all Class B Common Shares are converted into Class A Common Shares. In addition, this method assumes the dilutive effect if Class A stock options are converted to Class A Common Shares and the undistributed earnings are allocated evenly to both Class A and B Common Shares including Class A Common Shares issued pursuant to those converted stock options. This allocation is based on management’s judgment after considering the dividend rights of the two classes of common stock, the control of the Class B shareholders and the convertibility rights of the Class B Common Shares into Class A Common Shares.











Diluted EPS for Class A Common Shares Using the If-Converted Method



Three Months Ended January 31, 2019





Nine Months Ended January 31, 2019 





Three Months Ended January 31, 2018 





Nine Months Ended January 31, 2018





Diluted EPS for Class B Common Shares Using the Two-Class Method



Three Months Ended January 31, 2019





Nine Months Ended January 31, 2019





Three Months Ended January 31, 2018





Nine Months Ended January 31, 2018







For the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019, we excluded options to purchase 2,416,421 and 464,475 Class A Common Shares, respectively, and for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2018, we excluded options to purchase 12,130 and 57,598 Class A Common Shares, respectively, from the computation of diluted earnings per Class A Common Shares. We excluded these option share amounts because the exercise prices of those options were greater than the average 



market price of the Class A Common Shares during the applicable period. As of January 31, 2019, we had a total of 4,017,123 options outstanding and as of January 31, 2018, we had a total of 3,470,017 options outstanding.



E. Stock-Based Compensation



During the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we granted options for 1,201,000 and 1,196,000 shares of Class A common stock, respectively. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The forfeiture rates are estimated using historical data. We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $466,000 and $314,000 and income tax shortfall of approximately $26,000 and shortfall of $25,000 from option exercises during the three months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We recorded stock option compensation cost of approximately $1.3 million and $1.1 million, and income tax excess benefit of approximately $260,000 and benefit of $51,000 from option exercises during the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We record stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period directly to additional paid-in capital.



During the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018, we issued 456,113 and 778,129 shares of Class A common stock, respectively, resulting from the exercise of stock options. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018 based on market value at the exercise dates was approximately $2.1 million and $2.2 million, respectively. As of January 31, 2019, unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock option awards approximated $5.0 million, which we expect to recognize over a weighted average period of 1.94 years.



F. Fair Value of Financial Instruments





•Level 1—Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.



•Level 2—Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets.



•Level 3—Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable.



The following is a general description of the valuation methodologies we use for financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, including the general classification of such assets and liabilities pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.



Cash Equivalents—Cash equivalents include investments in government obligation based money-market funds, other money market instruments and interest-bearing deposits with initial terms of three months or less. The fair value of cash equivalents approximates its carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.



Marketable Securities—Marketable securities utilizing Level 1 inputs include active exchange-traded equity securities and equity index funds, and most U.S. Government debt securities, as these securities all have quoted prices in active markets. Marketable securities utilizing Level 2 inputs include municipal bonds. We value these securities using market-corroborated pricing or other models that use observable inputs such as yield curves.









G. Stock Repurchases



On August 19, 2002, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 2.0 million shares of our Class A common stock. We have made and will make these repurchases through open market purchases at prevailing market prices. The timing of any repurchase will depend upon market conditions, the market price of our Class A common stock and management’s assessment of our liquidity and cash flow needs. Under this repurchase plan, through January 31, 2019, we have repurchased 1,053,679 shares of Class A common stock at a cost of approximately $6.2 million. As of January 31, 2019, under all repurchase plans previously authorized, including this most recent plan, we have repurchased a total of 4,588,632 shares of common stock at a cost of approximately $25.6 million.



H. Comprehensive Income



We have not included condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements since comprehensive income and net earnings presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of operations would be substantially the same.



I. Industry Segments



FASB ASC 280, Segment Reporting, establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments. Operating segments are defined as components of a public entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision makers (“CODMs”), or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Our CODMs are our Principal Executive Officer (“PEO”) and President. While our CODMs are apprised of a variety of financial metrics and information, we manage our business primarily on a segment basis, with the CODMs evaluating performance based upon segment operating profit or loss, with certain corporate and other common expenses included in the Other segment. Our CODMs review the operating results of our three segments, assess performance and allocate resources in a manner that is consistent with the changing market dynamics that we have experienced. We recently updated our operating segments to reflect the fact that we provide our software solutions through three major operating segments, which are further broken down into a total of six major product and service groups. The three operating segments are (1) Supply Chain Management (“SCM”), (2) Information Technology (“IT”) Consulting and (3) Other.



The SCM segment primarily consists of Logility, which is a leading provider of collaborative supply chain optimization and advanced retail planning solutions that help medium, large and Fortune 500 companies transform their supply chain 



operations to gain a competitive advantage and which is recognized for its high-touch approach to customer service, rapid implementations and industry-leading return on investment (ROI). The SCM segment also includes (i) Demand Management, Inc (“DMI”), which delivers affordable, easy-to-use SaaS supply chain planning solutions designed to increase forecast accuracy, improve customer service and reduce inventory to maximize profits and lower costs, (ii) New Generation Computing (“NGC”), which is a leading provider of cloud-based supply chain and product lifecycle management solutions for brands, retailers and consumer products companies, and (iii) Halo Business Intelligence (“Halo”), which is an advanced analytics software provider leveraging an innovative blend of artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to drive greater supply chain performance. The Other segment consists of (i) American Software ERP, which provides purchasing and materials management, customer order processing, financial, e-commerce and traditional manufacturing solutions, and (ii) corporate overhead and other common expenses.





All of our revenues are derived from external customers. We do not have any intersegment revenue. Our income taxes and dividends are paid at a consolidated level. Consequently, it is not practical to show these items by operating segment.









J. Major Customers



No one customer accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2019 and 2018.



K. Contingencies



We more often than not indemnify our customers against damages and costs resulting from claims of patent, copyright or trademark infringement associated with use of our products. Historically, we have not been required to make any payments under such indemnifications. However, we continue to monitor the conditions that are subject to the indemnifications to identify whether it is probable that a loss has occurred, and would recognize any such losses when those losses are estimable. In addition, we warrant to our customers that our products operate substantially in accordance with the software products’ specifications. Historically, we have incurred no costs related to software product warranties and we do not expect to incur such costs in the future, and as such we have made no accruals for software product warranty costs. Additionally, we are involved in various claims arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.



L. Subsequent Event



On February 13, 2019, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.11 per share of our Class A and Class B common stock. The cash dividend is payable on May 24, 2019 to Class A and Class B shareholders of record at the close of business on May 10, 2019.



Item 1.Legal Proceedings



We are not currently involved in legal proceedings requiring disclosure under this item.



Item 1A.Risk Factors



In addition to the other information set forth in this Quarterly Report, you should carefully consider the risk factors disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of our Annual Report for fiscal 2018. There have been no material changes to the risk factors as previously disclosed in such Annual Report.



