We also provide specialized tax products to accounting professionals, who are key partners that help us reach small business customers.
These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
Results for the six months ended January 31, 2019 do not necessarily indicate the results we expect for the fiscal year ending July 31, 2019 or any other future period.
Our Consumer and Strategic Partner offerings have a significant and distinct seasonal pattern as sales and revenue from our income tax preparation products and services are heavily concentrated in the period from November through April.
We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1 to the financial statements in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2018.
There have been no other changes to our significant accounting policies during the first six months of fiscal 2019.
We derive revenue from the sale of packaged software products, software subscriptions, hosted services, payroll services, merchant payment processing services, financial supplies and hardware.
We enter into contracts with customers that include promises to transfer various products and services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations.
Our desktop offerings consist of our QuickBooks Desktop products, which include both packaged software products and software subscriptions, our consumer and professional tax desktop products, which include TurboTax, Lacerte and ProSeries, our desktop payroll products, and merchant payment processing services for small businesses who use our desktop offerings.
Our QuickBooks Desktop packaged software products include a perpetual software license as well as enhancements and connected services.See Note 1 to the financial statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for more information.
As we offer more online services, the ongoing operation and availability of our platforms and systems and those of our external service providers is becoming increasingly important.
Online service offerings are a significant part of our business.In addition, we may face competition from existing companies, with large established consumer user-bases and broad-based platforms, who may change or expand the focus of their business strategies and marketing to target our customers, including small businesses and tax customers.
We also face competition from companies with a variety of business models and monetization strategies, including increased competition from providers of free offerings, particularly in our tax, accounting, and payments businesses.
In order to compete, we have also introduced free offerings in several categories, but we may not be able to attract customers as effectively as competitors with different business models.
In addition, we may not be able to monetize our free offerings if other providers of free offerings provide features that we do not offer and customers who have formerly paid for Intuit’s products and services may elect to use our competitors’ free offerings instead.
Our consumer tax business also faces significant competition from the public sector, where we face the risk of federal and state taxing authorities proposing revenue raising strategies that involve developing and providing government tax software or other government return preparation systems at public expense.