fls.txt
The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts.
This ASU also expands the disclosure requirements to enable users of financial statements to understand the assumptions, models and methods for estimating expected credit losses.


item1.txt
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
1.Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
The accompanying unaudited interim Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2018 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 (the "Consolidated Financial Statements") have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and the rules and regulations of the US Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2018, the Company adopted the requirements of Topic 606 utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements).
Except as noted above for the adoption of Topic 606, there have been no material changes to the Company's significant accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2018.
The Company is the principal in the transaction and recognizes revenue for drop-shipment arrangements on a gross basis.
The Company recognizes revenue from these transactions when control has passed to the customer, which is usually upon delivery of the product to the customer.
For these transactions, the Company deems that control passes to the customer when the product is ready for delivery.
The Company's vendor partners warrant most of the products the Company sells.
For service-type warranties, the Company is arranging for those services to be provided by the third-party and therefore is acting as an agent in the transaction and records revenue on a net basis at the point of sale.
Revenues from most software license sales are recognized as a single performance obligation on a gross basis as the Company is acting as a principal in these transactions at the point the software license is delivered to the customer.
The Company evaluates whether the software assurance is a separate performance obligation by assessing if the third-party delivered software assurance is critical or essential to the core functionality of the software itself.


item2.txt
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.
Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted the requirements of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, as amended ("Topic 606"), utilizing the full retrospective method as discussed in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per common share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable plus days of supply in Inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit and leverage ratios, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA is a measure in the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Term Loan Facility ("Term Loan"), which is used to evaluate our ability to make certain investments, incur additional debt, and make restricted payments, such as dividends and share repurchases, as well as whether we are required to make additional principal prepayments on the Term Loan beyond the quarterly amortization payments.
For further details regarding the Term Loan, see Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements within Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6 (Long-Term Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Adjusted EBITDA and reconciliations to Net income, see "Results of Operations."
Total Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $440 million, or 11.2%, to $4,373 million, compared to $3,933 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $154 million, or 9.9%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased by $35 million, or 11.3%, between periods.
Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $71 million, or 18.5%, compared to the three months ended September 30, 2017.
The impact of foreign currency exchange decreased Other sales growth by approximately 200 basis points, due primarily to the unfavorable impact resulting from the Canadian dollar to US dollar translation.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1.


