The estimate of expected credit losses will require considerations of historical information, current information and reasonable and supportable forecasts.The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
CDW Corporation ("Parent") is a Fortune 500 company with multi-national capabilities and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the United States ("US"), the United Kingdom ("UK") and Canada.CDW Corporation is a Fortune 500 company and a leading provider of integrated information technology ("IT") solutions to small, medium and large business, and government, education and healthcare customers in the US, the UK and Canada.
In addition to Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating income margin, we believe that the most important financial and non-financial measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net income per diluted share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle (defined to be days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable and certain receivables due from vendors plus days of supply in Merchandise inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable and Accounts payable-inventory financing, based on a rolling three-month average), debt levels including available credit, sales per coworker and coworker turnover.
Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business.
For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, see "Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations."
Total Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $444 million, or 10.6%, to $4,630 million, compared to $4,186 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Corporate segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $150 million, or 8.7%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Small Business segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased by $48 million, or 14.5%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
Public segment Net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2019 increased $205 million, or 12.5%, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2018.
This increase was partially offset by the impact of foreign currency exchange of approximately 540 basis points, due to the unfavorable impact resulting from the British pound and Canadian dollar to US dollar translations.
Gross profit increased $78 million, or 11.2%, to $774 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019, compared to $696 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018.