Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  



This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or the Company’s future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “except,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or “continue,” the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. Actual events or results may differ materially. 



Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither the Company, nor any other person, assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. The Company is under no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations. 



The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by the Company which attempt to advise interested parties of the factors which affect the Company’s business, including without limitation the disclosures made under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the caption “Risk Factors,” and the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Company’s Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2017 and other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 



Critical Accounting Policies 



The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make significant estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventory reserves and contingencies on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be appropriate under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 



Inventories 



Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the weighted average cost method of accounting. Certain items in inventory may be considered obsolete or excess and, as such, we periodically review our inventories for excess and slow moving items and make provisions as necessary to properly reflect inventory value. Because inventories have, during the past few years, represented up to one-fourth of our total assets, any reduction in the value of our inventories would require us to take write-offs that would affect our net worth and future earnings. 



Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 



The Company records its allowance for doubtful accounts based upon its assessment of various factors. The Company considers historical experience, the age of the accounts receivable balance, credit quality of the Company’s customers, current economic conditions and other factors that may affect a customer’s ability to pay. 



Long-Lived Assets Including Goodwill 



The Company assesses property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, which are considered definite-lived assets, for impairment. Definite-lived assets are reviewed when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. We measure recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If property and equipment and intangible assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized equals the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair market value. 



The Company amortizes its intangible assets with definite useful lives over their estimated useful lives and reviews these assets for impairment. 



We test our goodwill and trademarks and indefinite-lived assets for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate these assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances requires significant judgment and could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition and sale or disposition of all or a portion of a division. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. 





Earn-out Liability 



The purchase agreement for the Rel-Tech acquisition provides for earn-out payments of up to $800,000, payable through May 31, 2018. As of July 31, 2018, the remaining earn-out obligation of $210,000 had not yet been paid out, however, subsequently in August 2018, the Company paid the $210,000 earn-out liability relieving the Company of its earn-out obligations. The initial earn-out liability was valued at its fair value using the Monte Carlo simulation and is included as a component of the total purchase price. The earn-out was revalued quarterly using a present value approach, and any resulting increase or decrease has been recorded into selling and general expenses. Any changes in the assumed timing and amount of the probability of payment scenarios could have impacted the fair value. Significant judgment is employed in determining the appropriateness of the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the earn-out as of the acquisition date. 



 Income Taxes 



The Company records a tax provision for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the currently enacted tax rates as of the date of the financial statements that apply to taxable income in effect for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is believed more likely than not to be realized. 



If a deduction reported on a tax return for an equity-based incentive award exceeds the cumulative compensation cost for those instruments recognized for financial reporting purposes, any resulting realized tax benefit that exceeds the previously calculated deferred tax asset for those instruments is considered an excess tax benefit, and is recognized as additional paid-in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the cumulative book compensation cost, the tax effect of the resulting difference is charged first to additional paid-in capital, to the extent of the available pool of windfall tax benefits, with any remainder recognized in income tax expense. 



The calculation of the tax provision involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of GAAP and complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management’s expectations could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.  



Stock-based Compensation 



The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to value the stock option grants. This valuation is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of inputs which involve significant judgments and estimates. These inputs include the expected term of employee stock options, the expected volatility of the stock price, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends. 



Overview 



RF Industries, Ltd. (together with subsidiaries, the “Company”) is a national manufacturer and marketer of interconnect products and systems, including coaxial and specialty cables and connectors, fiber optic cables and connectors, and electrical and electronic specialty cables and components. Through its four manufacturing and production facilities, the Company provides a wide selection of interconnect products and solutions primarily to telecommunications carriers and equipment manufacturers, wireless and network infrastructure carriers and manufacturers, Data Center and Co-location companies, and to various original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in several market segments. 









Liquidity and Capital Resources 





 ·As of July 31, 2018, the Company had cash and cash equivalents equal to $11.6 million.  



 ·As of July 31, 2018, the Company had $25.2 million in current assets and $5.3 million in current liabilities.  



 ·As of July 31, 2018, the Company had no outstanding indebtedness for borrowed funds.  





Subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2017, the Company experienced a substantial increase in orders for its products in the Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment. As a result of these increased orders, the Company’s backlog had increased to $20.2 million as of January 31, 2018. During the quarter ended April 30, 2018, the Company filled most of the January 31, 2018 backlog, which contributed to the large sale increase for the three months ended April 30, 2018. Despite shipping most of the January 31, 2018 backlog in the three month period ended April 30, 2018, backlog stood at $9.5 million and $7.8 million, as of April 30, 2018 and July 31, 2018, respectively, as a result of additional new orders received during the second and third quarter. Since purchase orders are submitted from customers based on the timing of their requirements, the Company’s ability to predict orders in future periods or trends in future periods is limited. Furthermore, purchase orders may be subject to cancellation from customers, although the Company has not historically experienced material cancellations of purchase orders. As a result of the Company’s backlog balance as of July 31, 2018, the Company’s liquidity and available capital resources are expected to continue to improve during the balance of the current fiscal year. 



The Company generated cash of $5.6 million during the nine months ended July 31, 2018 due largely to the impact of increased sales, which resulted in net income of $5.4 million. An increase in accounts receivable ($2.0 million) and inventories ($0.7 million) were partially offset by increased accounts payable ($0.5 million) and accrued expenses ($1.2 million). This net decrease in cash was partially offset by an increase in cash from noncash credits of $0.6 million primarily from depreciation and amortization, and $0.2 million of stock-based compensation expense. In addition, during the nine months ended July 31, 2018, the Company received $1.0 million from the exercise of stock options and paid out $0.5 million in dividends. 



The Company does not anticipate needing material additional capital equipment in the next twelve months. In the past, the Company has financed some of its equipment and furnishings requirements through capital leases. No additional capital equipment purchases have been currently identified that would require significant additional leasing or capital expenditures during the next twelve months. Management also believes that based on the Company’s current financial condition, its current backlog of unfulfilled orders and its anticipated future operations, the Company would be able to finance its expansion, if necessary. 



From time to time, the Company may undertake acquisitions of other companies or product lines in order to diversify its product and solutions offerings and customer base. Conversely, the Company may undertake the disposition of a division or product line due to changes in the Company’s business strategy or market conditions. Acquisitions may require the outlay of cash, which may reduce the Company’s liquidity and capital resources while dispositions may increase the Company’s cash position, liquidity and capital resources. 



We are currently evaluating the financial impact of the import tariffs that were recently enacted in the U.S. and abroad. While we do not believe that the financial impact on the Company of the enacted tariffs will be material, we recognize that there is uncertainty related to potential costs related to these actions. 



Results of Operations 



Three Months Ended July 31, 2018 vs. Three Months Ended July 31, 2017 



Net sales of $13.9 million increased by 77%, or $6.0 million, for the three months ended July 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 quarter”) when compared to the three months ended July 31, 2017 (the “fiscal 2017 quarter”). Net sales for the fiscal 2018 quarter at the Company’s Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment (Custom Cabling) increased by $5.9 million, or 121%, when compared to the fiscal 2017 quarter as a result of increased sales of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses. The Custom Cabling Manufacturing and Assembly segment saw an increase in new sales due, in large part, to project work in the OEM and wireless carrier markets in addition to an increase in traditional run rate business. Net sales for the fiscal 2018 quarter at the RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment (RF Connector) increased by $0.1 million, or 3%, to $3.1 million as compared to $3.0 million for the fiscal 2017 quarter. 





Gross profit for the third quarter increased $2.3 million to $4.6 million while gross margins improved to 33% of sales from 28% of sales in the third quarter last year. The improvement in gross margins was primarily due to the revenue increase at the Custom Cabling segment which had the effect of spreading certain fixed manufacturing costs over a larger revenue base. 



Engineering expenses increased $0.1 million during the fiscal 2018 quarter to $0.3 million compared to $0.2 million for the fiscal 2017 quarter due to increased compensation expense related to engineering activities. Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products. 



Selling and general expenses increased $0.3 million to $2.1 million compared to $1.8 million in the third quarter last year due to higher compensation related to the sales gains at Custom Cabling. Despite this increase in expenses, selling and general expenses as a percentage of sales declined to 15% of sales compared to 23% of sales in the third quarter last year indicating the Company’s increased operational efficiencies. 



For the fiscal 2018 quarter, income from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $1.8 million and $0.3 million, respectively, as compared to $30,000 and $0.2 million for the comparable third quarter last year. The increase in income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling and RF Connector segments was primarily due to the increase in sales. 



The provision (benefit) for income taxes was 20% and 10% of income before income taxes for the three months ended July 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in the effective income tax rate from period to period was primarily driven by the better sales in in the fiscal 2018 quarter. 



On December 22, 2017, the U.S. President signed the Tax Act, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective January 1, 2018. Consequently, we adjusted our net deferred tax liability as of October 31, 2017 by $41,000 to reflect the estimated impact of the Tax Act. While we have substantially completed our provisional analysis of the income tax effects of the Tax Act and recorded a reasonable estimate of such effects, the net one-time charge related to the Tax Act may differ, possibly materially, due to, among other things, further refinement of our calculations, changes in interpretations and assumptions that we have made, additional guidance that may be issued by the U.S. Government, and actions and related accounting policy decisions we may take as a result of the Tax Act. We will complete our analysis over a one-year measurement period ending December 22, 2018, and any adjustments during this measurement period will be included in net earnings from continuing operations as an adjustment to income tax expense in the reporting period when such adjustments are determined. 



All of the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during the fiscal 2017 quarter was for royalty payments received under the agreement for the sale of the Company’s RadioMobile division. The period for earning royalties from RadioMobile has now expired. As a result, there were no royalty payments received in the current fiscal year. 



For the fiscal 2018 quarter, net income was $1.7 million and fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.18 per share as compared to a net income of $0.2 million and fully diluted EPS of $0.02 per share for the fiscal 2017 quarter. For the fiscal 2018 quarter, the diluted weighted average shares outstanding was 9,729,608 as compared to 8,915,794 for the fiscal 2017 quarter. 



Nine Months Ended July 31, 2018 vs. Nine Months Ended July 31, 2017 



Net sales of $46.6 million increased by 111%, or $24.5 million, for the nine months ended July 31, 2018 (the “fiscal 2018 nine month period”) when compared to the nine months ended July 31, 2017 (the “fiscal 2017 nine month period”). Net sales for the fiscal 2018 nine month period at the Company’s Custom Cabling increased $24.1 million, or 173%, when compared to the fiscal 2017 nine month period due to increased sale of fiber optics cable, copper cabling, custom patch cord assemblies and wiring harnesses and other products. Net sales for the fiscal 2018 nine month period at the RF Connector and Cable Assembly segment increased by $0.4 million, or 5%, to $8.5 million as compared to $8.1 million for the fiscal 2017 nine month period. 



The Company’s gross profit as a percentage of sales in the fiscal 2018 nine month period increased by 7% to 34% compared to 27% in the fiscal 2017 nine month period due primarily to the increased revenues at the Custom Cabling division. The improvement in gross margins was primarily due to the revenue increase at the Custom Cabling segment which had the effect of spreading certain fixed manufacturing costs over a larger revenue base. 



Engineering expenses increased $0.7 million during the fiscal 2018 nine month period to $1.3 million compared to $0.6 million for the fiscal 2017 nine month period due to increased compensation expense related to engineering activities. Engineering expenses represent costs incurred relating to the ongoing development of new products. 



Selling and general expenses increased by $2.2 million during the fiscal 2018 nine month period to $7.7 million from $5.5 million in the fiscal 2017 nine month period. The increase in selling and general expenses was primarily due to increased compensation resulting from the increase in net sales. Selling and general as a percentage of sales declined to 17% for the fiscal 2018 nine month period as compared to 25% for the fiscal 2017 nine month period indicating the Company’s increased operational efficiencies. 



For the fiscal 2018 nine month period, income (loss) from continuing operations for the Custom Cabling segment and the RF Connector segment was $6.7 million and $(30,000), respectively, as compared to $(0.3) million and $0.2 million for the comparable nine months last year. The increase in income from continuing operations at the Custom Cabling segment was primarily due to the increase in sales while the decrease at RF Connector was primarily due to accrued bonuses as a result of the increased profitability of the Company overall. 







All of the income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during the fiscal 2017 nine month period was for royalty payments received under the agreement for the sale of the Company’s RadioMobile division. The period for earning royalties from RadioMobile has now expired. 



For the fiscal 2018 nine month period, net income was $5.4 million and fully diluted EPS was $0.57 per share as compared to a net income of $0.1 million and fully diluted EPS of $0.01 per share for the fiscal 2017 nine month period. For the fiscal 2018 nine month period, the diluted weighted average shares outstanding was 9,442,612 as compared to 8,886,395 for the fiscal 2017 nine month period. 



Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds 



Nothing to report. 



