item1.txt
The leases typically contain renewal options for periods ranging from one year to ten years and require the Company to pay real estate taxes and other operating costs.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have been accused of or charged with any wrongdoing or illegal acts in connection with any such sites.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Prior to the 2018 Plan, the Company had the 2002 Stock Option Plan (the “2002 Plan”) which had been approved by the Company’s shareholders and provided for the grant of stock options to directors and key employees of the Company.
Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate.
The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate.
Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the Company’s balance sheet.
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
See Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited).
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Prior to the 2018 Plan, the Company had the 2002 Stock Option Plan (the “2002 Plan”) which had been approved by the Company’s shareholders and provided for the grant of stock options to directors and key employees of the Company.
During the 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, the Company sold 29,174 shares of the Company’s treasury stock pursuant to the exercises of employee stock options, received proceeds of $365 from such exercises and recognized stock-based compensation expense, net of recognized tax benefits, of $265.
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date.
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named by the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) or a comparable state agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (the “Superfund Act”) or similar state law as potentially responsible parties in connection with alleged releases of hazardous substances at three sites.


item2.txt
Interest income increased 142% and 160%, respectively, for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 primarily as a result of higher average balances of marketable securities held by the Company in the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019, compared to the prior year's comparable periods, and higher weighted average interest rates.
Of the $145.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities at September 1, 2019, $127.5 million was owned by certain of the Company’s wholly owned foreign subsidiaries.
On July 25, 2018, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Electronics Business for $145.0 million in cash.
Park’s advanced composite materials are used to produce primary and secondary structures for jet engines, large and regional transport aircraft, military aircraft, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs commonly referred to as “drones”), business jets, general aviation aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.
For the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended August 26, 2018, the Company recorded income tax provisions from continuing operations of negative $438,000 and negative $163,000, respectively.
The decreases in such expenses during the 13 weeks and 26 weeks ended September 1, 2019 were primarily the results of lower payroll, travel and entertainment and stock option expenses.
Park Aerospace Corp., formerly Park Electrochemical Corp., (“Park” or the “Company”) develops and manufactures solution and hot-melt advanced composite materials used to produce composite structures for the global aerospace markets.
Park’s advanced composite materials are used to produce primary and secondary structures for jet engines, large and regional transport aircraft, military aircraft, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs commonly referred to as “drones”), business jets, general aviation aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.
An order forecast was provided by the customer and pricing was agreed upon for the term of the contract.


item3.txt



item4.txt
None.
Certification of principal financial officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a).


part2.txt
Certification of principal executive officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Exhibits.
Item 6.


