fls.txt



item1.txt
The Company determined the fair value of the awards based on the closing price of the Company stock on the date the RSUs were awarded.
The expected life of outstanding options is determined to be less than the contractual term for a period equal to the aggregate group of option holders’ estimated weighted average time within which options will be exercised.
Dividends on restricted stock units in the amount of $44,946 and $24,120 were accrued as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively.
The write-down was related to inventory that was previously realizable until the decision in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 to close the Kanas City plant due to the planned curtailment of the manufacturing of fluorescent light fixtures.
As of March 31, 2018, there were no standby letter of credit agreements.
The amended guidance is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018, or the Company’s fiscal 2020, with early adoption permitted.
Under the employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Wells, after he signs a release of claims Mr. Wells will be entitled to receive severance-related payments and certain benefits under the Company’s benefit programs.
These activities primarily include intercompany profit in inventory eliminations, expense related to certain corporate officers and support staff, the Company’s internal audit staff, expense related to the Company’s Board of Directors, stock option expense for options granted to corporate administration employees, certain consulting expenses, investor relations activities, and a portion of the Company’s legal, auditing and professional fee expenses.
The new standard will also require additional disclosures regarding our revenue recognition policy.
The number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2012 Plan is 1,449,521 shares, all of which were available for future grant or award as of March 31, 2018.
The Company also announced the consolidation of the Beaverton, Oregon facility into other LSI facilities.
 The accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
No items were identified during this evaluation that required adjustment to or disclosure in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, other than noted below.
However, the Company will not be able to make a complete determination about the impact of the standard on its consolidated financial statements until the time of adoption based upon outstanding contracts at that time.
There was no concentration of consolidated net sales in the three and nine months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017.


item2.txt
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
Selling and administrative expenses of $40,549,000 in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 excluding the $28 million goodwill impairment charge and excluding the restructuring charges related to the closure of the Kansas City facility, increased $3.0 million or 8.0% from the same period of fiscal 2017 primarily as the net result of acquiring Atlas.
The resulting allowance for doubtful accounts receivable is an estimate based upon the Company’s knowledge of its business and customer base, and historical trends.
The Company uses various tools, in addition to inventory turns, to identify which inventory items have the potential to become obsolete.
Selling and administrative expenses of $12,962,000 in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased $2.2 million or 20.3% from the same period of fiscal 2017, primarily as the net result of acquiring Atlas in February 2017.
The Company has adopted ASU 2015-17, “Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.” As a result of early adoption of this accounting guidance, prior periods have been re-classified, which only affected the financial statement presentation and not the measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets.
Adjusted operating income, net income and earnings per share, which exclude the impact of a goodwill and intangible asset impairment, a tax charge related to the revaluation of deferred tax assets, restructuring and plant closure costs, acquisition deal costs, a fair market value inventory adjustment, and other severance costs, are non-GAAP financial measures.
There was a reduction in the Company’s traditional lighting sales (metal halide and fluorescent light sources) from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2018 as customers continue to convert from traditional lighting to light fixtures having solid-state LED technology.
Below is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to operating income, net income, and earnings per share for the periods indicated.
In certain arrangements with customers, as is the case with the sale of some of our solid-state LED video screens, revenue is recognized upon customer acceptance of the video screen at the job site.
Gross profit of $15,944,000 in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 increased $1.0 million or 7.0% from the same period of fiscal 2017, and increased from 24.0% to 25.7% as a percentage of Lighting Segment net sales (customer plus inter-segment net sales).
In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-09, “Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.” This amended guidance simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment award transactions.
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU 2016-02, “Leases.” The amended guidance requires an entity to recognize assets and liabilities that arise from leases.


item4.txt



part2.txt



