fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2018 we adopted the requirements of Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No.
2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with customers, or Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 606 using the full retrospective method, as discussed in detail in Note 5.
All amounts and disclosures set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with ASC 606 as discussed in Note 5.
Earnings per share for the six and three months ended June 30, 2017 were recalculated and restated using the two class method and presented on a comparable basis with the same periods in 2018.
In 2017 the Company determined it should be reporting earnings per share using the two-class method in accordance with ASC 260-10-45-60, which treats unvested restricted shares granted under our 2012 Stock-Based Compensation Plan that are entitled to receive non-forfeitable dividends as participating securities.
While the Company has determined the impact of applying the two-class method does not have a material impact on previously issued financial statements, it is appropriate to recalculate and restate amounts presented on a comparative and consistent basis with current period results.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (“ASU 2016-15”) which reduces diversity in practice in how certain transactions are classified in the statement of cash flows.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018 and did not impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company’s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 and $0.9 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.7 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, respectively.
The Company believes the following critical accounting policies used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements affect its more significant judgments and estimates.
The Company’s accounts receivable long-term are discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale based on prevailing rates.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.
The Company is currently assessing the potential impact of adopting ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated financial statements.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 on its consolidated financial statements, particularly its recognition for accounts receivable.
The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
The ASU is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2019.
The Company is continuing to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
The amendments in this updated guidance clarify that an entity should apply modification accounting in response to a change in the terms and conditions of an entity’s share-based payment awards unless three newly specified criteria are met.


item3.txt



item4.txt
Based on the material weaknesses described below, the Company’s Interim Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.


part2.txt
Item 2. second quarter of 2018.


