fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries GAAP”) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Rule 8-03 of Regulation S-X.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.
The Company also recognized corresponding ROU assets, net of lease incentives of approximately $2.2 million.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.
2018-07, “Compensation — Stock Compensation (Topic 718), Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting” (“ASU 2018-07”), which aligns the measurement and classification guidance for share-based payments to nonemployees with that for employees, with certain exceptions.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-09 – Codification Improvements (“ASU 2018-09”), which facilitates amendments to a variety of topics to clarify, correct errors in, or make minor improvements to the accounting standards codification.


item2.txt
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Total dividends paid and shares repurchased were $0.8 million and less than $0.1 million during the three months ended June 30, 2019, respectively, and $0.8 million and $0.9 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018, respectively.
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
June 30, 2019 was $1.9 million compared to a net loss for the same period in the prior year of $1.1 million.
Diluted income per share for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.41 compared to diluted loss per share of $0.25 for the same period in the prior year.
Net income excluding the impact of separation expenses, net of taxes (non-GAAP) for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $1.9 million compared to $0.9 million for the same period in the prior year.
Diluted earnings per share excluding separation expenses, net of taxes (non-GAAP) for the three months ended June 30, 2019 was $0.43 compared to $0.20 for the same period in the prior year.
The related customer receivables are classified as accounts receivable long-term and discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2. second quarter of 2019.


