fls.txt
The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


item1.txt
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
Wayside Technology Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
In the opinion of the Company’s management, all adjustments that are of a normal recurring nature, considered necessary for fair presentation, have been included in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year.
ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use (“ROU”) asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term from operating leases.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
This update still requires modified retrospective transition; however, it adds the option to initially apply the new standard at the adoption date and recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment in the current period instead of at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
The new standard provides optional practical expedients in transition, which the Company has elected as a package permitting the Company to not reassess under the new standard prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
Upon adoption, the Company recognized operating lease liabilities of approximately $3.0 million based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments for existing operating leases.


item2.txt
Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 18, 2019.
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
$0.1 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018, respectively.
Under ASC 606 net sales for certain maintenance, service and security products we sell are recorded net of the related cost of sales.
Software and hardware products for which sales and cost of sales are reported on separate line items are referred to as being recorded on a gross basis.
The related customer receivables are classified as accounts receivable long-term and discounted to their present value at prevailing market rates at the time of sale.
The net proceeds from such sales are included in the operating section of the statement of cash flows as changes in accounts receivable.
If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-offs may be required.
For leases with a term of 12 months or less, a lessee is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities.
Under this option, comparative periods presented in the financial statements in which the new lease standard is adopted will continue to be presented in accordance with prior guidance.
The adoption of the new standard had a material effect on the Company’s financial statements, with the most significant effects of adoption relating to (1) the recognition of new right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on its balance sheet for real estate operating leases; and (2) providing significant new disclosures about its leasing activities.
2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU No.
2016-13 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2020, with early adoption permitted, and is to be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
2016-13 on its Consolidated Financial Statements, particularly its recognition of allowances for accounts receivable.


item3.txt



item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 2. third quarter of 2019.


