fls.txt



item1.txt
In addition, the Cloud Services business includes fax, voice, backup, security, consumer privacy and protection (“CPP”), and email marketing products.
All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements are unaudited and have been prepared in accordance with instructions for Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
The Company determines whether revenue should be reported on a gross or net basis by assessing whether the Company is acting as the principal or an agent in the transaction.
820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (“ASC 820”), in measuring fair value and in disclosing fair value measurements.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
As of June 30, 2019, the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, interest receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses, interest payable, customer deposits and long-term debt are reflected in the financial statements at cost.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
J2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
For equity securities without a readily determinable fair value that are not accounted for by the equity method, the Company measures the equity security using cost, less impairment, if any, and plus or minus observable price changes arising from orderly transactions in the same or similar investment from the same issuer.
As a result, the Company has concluded that it will not consolidate OCV, as it is not the primary beneficiary of the OCV Fund, and will account for this investment under the equity-method of accounting.
See Note 5, “Investments”.
Under ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures, an investor that holds investments that qualify for specialized industry accounting for investment companies in accordance with ASC 946 should record its share of the earnings or losses, realized or unrealized, as reported by its equity method investees in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
Property and equipment are stated at cost.


item2.txt
In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report.
For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
Through our Cloud Services business, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
Our Cloud Services business generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media business generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets.


item3.txt
J2 Global undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and borrowings under our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


