fls.txt



item1.txt
j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been provided, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collection is probable.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold.
All debt securities are accounted for on a specific identification basis.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.


item2.txt
For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
◦Sustain growth or profitability, particularly in light of an uncertain U.S. or worldwide economy and the related impact on customer acquisition and retention rates, customer usage levels, and credit and debit card payment declines; j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global”, “the Company”, “our”, “us” or “we”), is a leading provider of internet services.
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability.
Our Digital Media segment is driven primarily by advertising revenues, has relatively higher sales and marketing expense and has seasonal strength in the fourth quarter.
Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
During the three months ended September 30, 2018, there were no significant changes in our critical accounting policies and estimates.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.


item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


