fls.txt



item1.txt
J2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to J2 Global.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate debt securities.
J2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale debt securities are those investments J2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
J2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
See Note 5, “Investments”.
Under ASC Topic 323, Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures, an investor that holds investments that qualify for specialized industry accounting for investment companies in accordance with ASC 946 should record its share of the earnings or losses, realized or unrealized, as reported by its equity method investees in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.


item2.txt
In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report.
Through our Cloud Services business, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
Our Digital Media business specializes in the technology, gaming, broadband, business to business, healthcare, and international markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
Our Cloud Services business generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media business generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.
In addition to growing our business organically, on a regular basis we acquire businesses to grow our customer bases, expand and diversify our service offerings, enhance our technologies, acquire skilled personnel and enter into new markets.
Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and borrowings under our Credit Facility that bear variable market interest rates.
Our return on these investments is subject to interest rate fluctuations.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.


