fls.txt



item1.txt
j2 Global, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (“j2 Global” or the “Company”), is a leading provider of internet services.
In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair presentation have been reflected in these interim financial statements.
j2 Global reserves for receivables it may not be able to collect.
The reserves for the Company’s Digital Media segment are typically driven by past due invoices based on historical experience.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when the Company satisfies its obligation by transferring control of the goods or services to its customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services (see Note 3 - Revenues).
The Company accounts for its investments in debt securities in accordance with ASC Topic No.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
j2 Global complies with the provisions of FASB ASC Topic No.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
j2 Global measures the contingent earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see Note 6 - Fair Value Measurements).
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Any amount paid in excess of the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in operating activities.
Certain prior year reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2018 presentation.
In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No.
The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.


item2.txt
In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report.
For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
Our consolidated revenues are currently generated from three basic business models, each with different financial profiles and variability.
Our critical accounting policies are described in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2018.
As of January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective method.
See Note 3 - Revenues to the condensed consolidated financial statements for our revenue recognition policy as of January 1, 2018.
In a given period, we may close greater or fewer acquisitions than in prior periods or acquisitions of greater or lesser significance than in prior periods.


item3.txt
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio.


item4.txt
Item 4.Controls and Procedures Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures Item 5.Other Information None.


part2.txt
Item 1A.


