fls.txt



item1.txt
The accompanying interim condensed consolidated financial statements include the accounts of j2 Global and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates the adequacy of these reserves.
j2 Global recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been provided, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collection is probable.
Debt investments are typically comprised of corporate and governmental debt securities.
j2 Global determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of acquisition and evaluates such determination at each balance sheet date.
Available-for-sale securities are those investments j2 Global does not intend to hold to maturity and can be sold.
321, Investments - Equity Securities (“ASC 321”) which requires the accounting for equity investments (other than those accounted for using the equity method of accounting) generally be measured at fair value for equity securities with readily determinable fair values.
j2 believes that the OCV general partner, as a single decision maker, holds the ability to make the decisions about the activities that most significantly impacts the OCV Fund’s economic performance.
ASC 820 provides a framework for measuring fair value and expands the disclosures required for fair value measurements of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities.
With the exception of certain investments and long-term debt, cost approximates fair value due to the short-term nature of such instruments.
As of the same dates, the carrying value of other long-term liabilities approximated fair value as the related interest rates approximate rates currently available to j2 Global.
Property and equipment are stated at cost.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The estimated useful lives of property and equipment range from 1 to 10 years.
Fixtures, which are comprised primarily of leasehold improvements and equipment under capital leases, are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives or for leasehold improvements, the related lease term, if less.
The estimated useful life of costs capitalized is evaluated for each specific project and ranges from 1 to 5 years.
liability capped by the contractual maximum of the contingent earn-out obligation.
The amount paid that is less than or equal to the liability on the acquisition date is reflected as cash used in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows.


item2.txt
In addition to historical information, we have also made forward-looking statements in this report.
We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements.
Through our Cloud Services segment, we provide cloud services to consumers and businesses and license our intellectual property (“IP”) to third parties.
Our Digital Media segment specializes in the technology, gaming, lifestyle and healthcare markets offering content, tools and services to consumers and businesses.
Our Cloud Services segment generates revenues primarily from customer subscription and usage fees and from IP licensing fees.
Our Digital Media segment generates revenues from advertising and sponsorships, subscription and usage fees, performance marketing and licensing fees.


item3.txt
Item 3.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date hereof.


item4.txt



part2.txt
Item 1A.
The 10-K Risk Factors are not the only ones we face.
The SEC staff acknowledged the challenges companies face incorporating the effects of tax reform by their financial reporting deadlines and issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Changes to these provisional amounts or any of our other estimates regarding taxes could result in material charges or credits in future reporting periods.


