item1.txt
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors).
ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to apply a dual approach, classifying leases as either finance or operating leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase of the leased asset by the lessee.
This classification will determine whether the lease expense is recognized based on an effective interest method or on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
A lessee is also required to record a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for all leases with a term greater than 12 months regardless of their classification.
ASU 2016-02 requires lessors to account for leases using an approach that is substantially equivalent to existing guidance for sales-type leases, direct financing leases and operating leases.
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases) and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract.
We elected the "comparatives under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 840 option" as a transitional method, which allows us to initially apply the new lease requirements at the effective date.
In addition, we have elected the short-term lease recognition whereby we will not recognize operating leases related assets or liabilities for leases with a lease term of less than one year.
As of April 28, 2019, we recognized a right of use asset for operating leases of $11,101 and a current and non-current lease liability for operating leases of $2,745 and $8,356, respectively.
The right of use operating assets are included in the "Investment in affiliates and other assets" line item, the current lease liabilities are included in the "Accrued expenses" line item, and the non-current lease liabilities are included in the "Other long-term obligations" line item in our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13, including all subsequent amendments and improvements to ASC Topic 326 issued by FASB, will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
Our proportional share of the respective affiliates' earnings or losses is included in the "Other income (expense), net" line item in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
For the six months ended November 2, 2019 and October 27, 2018, our share of the losses of our affiliates was $241 and $265, respectively.
Options outstanding to purchase 2,282 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $9.90 for the three months ended November 2, 2019 and 2,377 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $9.94 for the three months ended October 27, 2018 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.
Options outstanding to purchase 2,238 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $9.97 for the six months ended November 2, 2019 and 2,129 shares of common stock with a weighted average exercise price of $10.15 for the six months ended October 27, 2018 were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the effects would be anti-dilutive.
Contract assets represent revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed and include unbilled receivables.
Unbilled receivables, which represent an unconditional right to payment subject only to the passage of time, are reclassified to accounts receivable when they are billed according to the contract terms.
The changes in our contract assets and contract liabilities from April 27, 2019 to November 2, 2019 were due to the timing of billing schedules and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on the contractual payment terms and the seasonality of the sports markets.
We had no material impairments of contract assets for the six months ended November 2, 2019.
During the six months ended November 2, 2019, we recognized revenue of $39,352 related to our contract liabilities as of April 27, 2019.
Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss in the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In addition, as of November 2, 2019, we anticipate we will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities, and we have determined no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized.
Included in accounts receivable as of November 2, 2019 and April 27, 2019 was $717 and $440, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.
The present value of these contracts and leases are recorded as a receivable as the revenue is recognized in accordance with GAAP, and profit is recognized to the extent the present value is in excess of cost.
The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $6,325 and $3,514 as of November 2, 2019 and April 27, 2019, respectively.
Contract and lease receivables bearing annual interest rates of 5.0 to 9.0 percent are due in varying annual installments through 2024.
These are all classified as operating leases and have initial lease terms ranging from one to five years.
Right-of-use assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term, and lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease.
Operating lease right-of-use assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As our leases do not provide an implicit rate, we use the incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date in determining the present value of future lease payments.
The operating lease right-of-use asset includes any prepaid lease payments and initial direct costs and excludes any lease incentives and impairments.
Some of our leases include options to extend the term, which is only included in the right-of-use assets and lease liability calculation when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option.
We calculate the provision for income taxes during interim reporting periods by applying an estimate of the annual effective tax rate for the full fiscal year to “ordinary” income or loss (pre-tax income or loss excluding unusual or infrequently occurring discrete items) for the reporting period.
The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at November 2, 2019 and April 27, 2019 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values.
We account for all derivatives in the condensed consolidated balance sheets within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges.
As of November 2, 2019 and April 27, 2019, we had not designated any of our derivative instruments as accounting hedges, and thus we recorded the changes in fair value in the "Other income (expense), net" line item in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As of November 2, 2019, there was an asset and liability of $70 and $233, respectively; and as of April 27, 2019, there was an asset and liability of $91 and $4, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.


item2.txt
Fiscal 2020 will be a 53-week year; therefore, the six months ended November 2, 2019 contains operating results for 27 weeks while the six months ended October 27, 2018 contains operating results for 26 weeks.
The decrease in orders for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the softer market in the on-premise and OOH niches, partially offset by an increase in large orders in the spectacular niche.
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to a decrease in the number of projects for college and universities venues.
Orders increased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Orders increased for the three months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to general variations in the timing of account-based order placements.
The product order backlog as of November 2, 2019 was $182 million as compared to $150 million as of October 27, 2018 and $207 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2020.
The product order backlog as of November 2, 2019 increased in all business units from October 27, 2018.
Additionally, the Commercial business unit experienced increased costs related to products covered under long-term service agreements.
The gross profit percent increased in the Transportation business unit primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs, which was partially offset by an increase in warranty expense.
The gross profit percent increased in the International business unit primarily due to lower warranty expense and higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
Selling expense in our Commercial and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts.
Selling expense in our International business unit decreased in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions.
Selling expense in our Live Events and Transportation business units for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses.
The change in interest income, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2020 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
The change in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same period one year ago, is primarily driven by differences in estimated tax credits proportionate to estimated pre-tax book income for the period.
Sales and orders in all business units were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks.
For net sales, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $13.2 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.6 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.6% increase.
For orders, during the first six months ended November 2, 2019, we achieved a $12.5 million per week average run rate as compared to $12.0 million per week during the first six months ended October 27, 2018, or an approximate 4.8% increase.
We had an increase in orders placed during the first six months ended November 2, 2019 related to new releases of our product offerings.
Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the variability in order timing and a decrease in large video projects compared to the same period last year.
Orders decreased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Orders increased for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to general variations in the timing of large contracts in professional sports stadium and account-based order placements.
The decrease in our gross profit percentage for the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to an increase in tariff related expenses of approximately $2.6 million, or a 0.7% impact to gross profit, as last year at this time tariffs were just being introduced on US imports of aluminum, steel, and components from China.
Total warranty as a percent of sales decreased to 2.2% for the three months ended November 2, 2019 as compared to 2.5% during the six months ended October 27, 
The gross profit percent decreased in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units for the reasons described above, which was partially offset by higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
The gross profit percent increased in the Transportation and International business units primarily due to higher sales volumes over relatively fixed infrastructure costs.
All areas of selling expenses were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, and High School Park and Recreation business units increased in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period a year ago primarily due to personnel related expenses and increased marketing efforts.
Selling expenses in our International business unit decreased in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to bad debt recovery and a decrease in third-party commissions.
Selling expenses in our Transportation business unit remained relatively flat in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago.
All areas of operating expenses were impacted as a result of the six months ended November 2, 2019 including 27 weeks compared to the more common 26 weeks.
General and administrative expenses in the six months ended November 2, 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and personnel related expenses.
The change in interest income, net in the six months ended November 2, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
The change in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same period one year ago, is primarily driven by differences in tax credits proportionate to estimated pre-tax book income for the period.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of November 2, 2019, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


