item1.txt
Certain prior year amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings, customer deposits, and deferred revenue are combined to present contract liabilities.
Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings now represent contract assets.
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
It defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and allows companies to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance and requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts.
We adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 by applying the guidance to all open contracts at the adoption date.
We completed our evaluation of our revenue arrangements under the new standard and determined that the adoption did not materially change the timing or amount of revenue recognized, primarily based upon our assessment of "point in time" and "over time" revenue recognition.
No adjustment to beginning retained earnings was recorded, and we have made additional disclosures related to revenue from contracts with customers as required by the new standard upon adoption.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors).
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases), and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract.
Our preliminary assumptions suggest we will likely adopt certain practical expedients, including the lookback option, and not change historical conclusions related to (1) contracts that contain leases, (2) existing lease classification, and (3) initial direct costs.
Precontract costs directly associated with anticipated contracts expected to be recoverable include $359 and $217 as of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
When we are contracted to provide a single promise (an integrated system), we often treat it as a single performance obligation as we are providing goods and services with the same patterns of transfer, that are highly integrated or interdependent, that are modified or customized by other goods or services promised, or that provide a combined outcome for which the customer has contracted.
Many of our contracts are bundled and we do not have separate selling prices for each performance obligation, therefore, we primarily use the cost plus a margin approach to allocate the relative transaction price to identified performance obligations as it is the best representative of our pricing methods.
We account for these types of contracts as a combined single performance obligation with no segmentation between types of products and services.
We treat contract modifications as a separate contract and new performance obligations when the additional goods or services are distinct and do not add to the unique configuration or are outside the integrated system and when the consideration reflects standalone selling prices.
If the additional goods or services offered under the modification enhance the uniquely configured or integrated systems, revenue is allocated to the existing contracts' performance obligation.
Contract assets represent revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed and include unbilled receivables.
The decrease in our contract assets and increase in contract liabilities from April 28, 2018 to October 27, 2018 was due to the timing of billing schedules and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on the contractual payment terms and the seasonality of the sports markets.
We had no material impairments of accounts receivable or contract assets for the year.
During the six months ended October 27, 2018, we recognized revenue of $30,667 related to our contract liabilities as of April 28, 2018.
Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In addition, as of October 27, 2018, we anticipate we will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities, and we have determined no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized.
In conducting our impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our business units to the related carrying value of the allocated assets.
Included in accounts receivable as of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018 was $2,013 and $964, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.
The present value of these contracts and leases are recorded as a receivable as the revenue is recognized in accordance with GAAP, and profit is recognized to the extent the present value is in excess of cost.
The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $2,653 and $3,393 as of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
The decreases in the effective tax rates, as compared to the same prior year period, are due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the Tax Act. ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair values for fixed-rate long-term receivables are estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on interest rates currently being offered for contracts with similar terms to customers with similar credit quality.
The carrying amounts reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets for long-term receivables approximate fair value and have been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
Fair values for fixed-rate long-term marketing obligations are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation applying interest rates currently being offered for debt with similar terms and underlying collateral.
The total carrying value of long-term marketing obligations as reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets within other long-term obligations approximates fair value and has been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values.
We account for all derivatives on the condensed consolidated balance sheets within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges.
As of October 27, 2018 and April 28, 2018, we had not designated any of our derivative instruments as accounting hedges, and thus we recorded the changes in fair value in "Other (expense) income, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As of October 27, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $187 and $7, respectively, and as of April 28, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $41 and $236, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.


item2.txt
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Orders for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago remained relatively flat.
Orders increased for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.
Orders for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.
Orders decreased for the three months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
The product order backlog as of October 27, 2018 was $150 million as compared to $155 million as of October 28, 2017 and $177 million at the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2019.
Historically, our product order backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders.
The product order backlog as of October 27, 2018 increased from October 28, 2017 in our Commercial, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units and decreased in our Live Events and International business units.
Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to an increase in the allocation of shared resources to this market's selling efforts.
Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to increased personnel related expenses.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, and Transportation business units remained relatively flat during the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.
Product design and development expenses in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat as compared to the same period one year ago.
The change in interest income, net for the second quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
The increase in orders for the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the result of the volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and an increased demand in the on-premise niche.
Orders decreased for the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to decreased number of projects in professional sports venues and due to an order cancellation.
Orders increased for the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects with larger video systems.
Orders increased for the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.
Orders decreased for the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a change in the allocation of resources to this market's selling efforts.
Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to third-party commissions and increased personnel related expenses.
Selling expenses in our Commercial, Live Events, and Transportation business units remained relatively flat in the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the six months ended October 27, 2018 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.
Product design and development expenses in the six months ended October 27, 2018 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product design and development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets.
The change in interest income, net in the six months ended October 27, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities.
The decrease in the effective tax rate, as compared to the same prior year period, is due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the Tax Act. in the first six months of fiscal 2018.
On large product orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to and exceed 12 months depending on the amount of custom work and a customer’s delivery needs.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of October 27, 2018, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


