item1.txt
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
In addition, it requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts and provides guidance on transition requirements.
We adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 by applying the guidance to all open contracts at the adoption date.
No adjustment to beginning retained earnings was recorded and we have made additional disclosures related to revenue from contracts with customers as required by the new standard upon adoption.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors).
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases) and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract.
Our preliminary assumptions suggest we will likely adopt certain practical expedients, including the lookback option, and not change historical conclusions related to (1) contracts that contain leases, (2) existing lease classification, and (3) initial direct costs.
Based on our current estimates, we expect to recognize right of use assets and lessee lease liabilities of approximately $5,600 with respect to operating leases.
Our proportional share of the respective affiliates' earnings or losses is included in the "Other (expense) income, net" line item in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
Precontract costs directly associated with anticipated contracts expected to be recoverable include $478 and $217 as of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
When we are contracted to provide a single promise (an integrated system), we often treat it as a single performance obligation as we are providing goods and services with the same pattern of transfer, that are highly integrated or interdependent, that are modified or customized by other goods or services promised, or that provide a combined outcome for which the customer has contracted.
Many of our contracts are bundled and we do not have separate selling prices for each performance obligation, therefore, we primarily use the cost plus a margin approach to allocate the relative transaction price to identified performance obligations as it is the best representative of our pricing methods.
Variability in contract assets and contract liabilities relates to the timing of billings and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on contractual payment terms and build and installation schedules and the related timing differences in transfer of control.
We account for these types of contracts as a combined single performance obligation with no segmentation between types of products and services.
We treat contract modifications as a separate contract and new performance obligations when the additional goods or services are distinct and do not add to the unique configuration or are outside the integrated system and when the consideration reflects standalone selling prices.
If the additional goods or services offered under the modification enhance the uniquely configured or integrated systems, revenue is allocated to the existing contracts' performance obligation.
Subscription-based licenses include the right for a customer to use our licenses and receive related support for a specified term, and revenue is recognized pro-rata over the term of the engagement.
Contract assets represent revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed and include unbilled receivables.
The changes in our contract assets and contract liabilities from April 28, 2018 to January 26, 2019 were due to the timing of billing schedules and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on the contractual payment terms and the seasonality of the sports markets.
During the nine months ended January 26, 2019, we recognized revenue of $34,268 related to our contract liabilities as of April 28, 2018.
Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In addition, as of January 26, 2019, we anticipate we will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities, and we have determined no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized.
Included in accounts receivable as of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018 was $928 and $964, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.
The present value of these contracts and leases are recorded as a receivable as the revenue is recognized in accordance with GAAP, and profit is recognized to the extent the present value is in excess of cost.
The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $3,245 and $3,393 as of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
As of April 28, 2018, we recorded a liability and related other receivable of $1,904 for a net claim from a customer against work performed by one of our subcontractors during installation which damaged our customer's property.
During the nine months ended January 26, 2019 and January 27, 2018, we recognized warranty expense and estimated equipment service agreement losses for probable and reasonably estimated costs to remediate this issue of $1,610 and $4,034, respectively.
The changes in the effective tax rates are due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, the release of $2,775 in unrecognized tax benefits related to a lapse of statute, the release of $480 for a valuation allowance reversal related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 30.4 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the Tax Act as compared to the same prior year periods, which included a re-measurement of deferred taxes resulting in a $3,679 impact to tax expense due to the lowering of the tax rate under the Tax Act. The Tax Act reduced the federal normal statutory rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; however, since we are a fiscal year tax filer, a blended rate of 30.4 percent was used for fiscal year 2018.
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair values for fixed-rate long-term receivables are estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on interest rates currently being offered for contracts with similar terms to customers with similar credit quality.
The carrying amounts reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets for long-term receivables approximate fair value and have been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
Fair values for fixed-rate long-term marketing obligations are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation applying interest rates currently being offered for debt with similar terms and underlying collateral.
The total carrying value of long-term marketing obligations as reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets within other long-term obligations approximates fair value and has been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values.
We account for all derivatives on the condensed consolidated balance sheets within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges.
As of January 26, 2019 and April 28, 2018, we had not designated any of our derivative instruments as accounting hedges, and thus we recorded the changes in fair value in "Other (expense) income, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As of January 26, 2019, there was an asset and liability of $20 and $24, respectively, and as of April 28, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $41 and $236, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.


item2.txt
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
The increase in orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to the increased number of projects in professional sports and college and university venues.
Orders increased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.
Orders for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago decreased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing.
Orders decreased for the three months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 was $168 million as compared to $151 million as of January 27, 2018 and $150 million at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2019.
The product order backlog as of January 26, 2019 increased from January 27, 2018 in our Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units and decreased in our International business unit.
Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to an increase in the allocation of shared resources to this market's selling efforts.
Selling expense in our Live Events business unit decreased in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to reduced personnel related expenses.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Transportation, and International business units remained relatively flat during the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to an increase in professional fees and IT related systems.
Product design and development expenses in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat as compared to the same period one year ago.
The change in interest income, net for the third quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs.
The change in the effective tax rate is due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, the release of $2.8 million in unrecognized tax benefits related to a lapse of statute, the release of $0.5 million for a valuation allowance reversal related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 30.4 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), as compared to the same prior year period, which included a re-measurement of deferred taxes resulting in a $3.7 million impact to tax expense due to the lowering of the tax rate under the Tax Act. The Tax Act reduced the federal normal statutory rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; however, since we are a fiscal year tax filer, a blended rate of 30.4 percent was used for fiscal year 2018.
The increase in orders for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was the result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche and increased demand in the on-premise and OOH niches.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to a decreased number of projects in professional sports venues and an order cancellation.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in large video system projects.
Orders increased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to variability caused by large order timing and continued demand for intelligent transportation systems.
Orders decreased for the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to the variability of timing caused by large projects.
Selling expense in our High School Park and Recreation business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a change in the allocation of resources to this market's selling efforts.
Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to third-party commissions and increased personnel related expenses.
Selling expenses in our Commercial, Live Events, and Transportation business units remained relatively flat in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago.
General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to a decrease in professional fees.
Product design and development expenses in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 as compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to increased labor costs assigned to product design and development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets.
The change in interest income, net in the nine months ended January 26, 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities.
The change in the effective tax rate is due to tax credits proportionate to pre-tax book income, the release of $2.8 million in unrecognized tax benefits related to a lapse of statute, the release of $0.5 million for a valuation allowance reversal related to foreign net operating loss carryforwards, and a decrease in the federal statutory tax rate from 30.4 percent to 21 percent pursuant to the Tax Act, as compared to the same prior year period, which included a re-measurement of deferred taxes resulting in a $3.7 million impact to tax expense due to the lowering of the tax rate under the Tax Act. The Tax Act reduced the federal normal statutory rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; however, since we are a fiscal year tax filer, a blended rate of 30.4 percent was used for fiscal year 2018.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of January 26, 2019, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


