item1.txt
Certain prior year amounts in the condensed consolidated balance sheet have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings, customer deposits, and deferred revenue are combined to present contract liabilities.
Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings now represent contract assets.
In October 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory, which is intended to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory.
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606).
ASU 2014-09 and related guidance supersedes revenue recognition requirements under FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 605 and related industry specific revenue recognition guidance.
This new standard defines a comprehensive revenue recognition model, requiring a company to recognize revenue from the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.
It defines a five-step process to achieve this core principle and allows companies to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current guidance and requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from the customer contracts.
We have adopted ASU 2014-09 and its related guidance under the modified retrospective method during the first quarter of fiscal 2019 by applying the guidance to all open contracts at the adoption date.
We have completed our evaluation of our revenue arrangements under the new standard and have assessed that the adoption did not materially change the timing or amount of revenue recognized, primarily based upon our assessment of "point in time" and "over time" revenue recognition.
No adjustment to beginning retained earnings was recorded, and we have made additional disclosures related to revenue from contracts with customers as required by the new standard upon adoption.
The amendment requires an entity to perform its annual or interim goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2017-04 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which provides guidance regarding the measurement and recognition of credit impairment for certain financial assets.
We are currently evaluating the effect that adopting ASU 2016-13 will have on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (that is, lessees and lessors).
In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases), and ASU 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842), Targeted Improvements, which provide (i) narrow amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (ii) lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract.
Our proportional share of the respective affiliates' earnings or losses is included in the "Other (expense) income, net" line item in our condensed consolidated statements of operations.
We often contract some or all equipment and services to our customers under the terms of a bundled (performance obligation(s)) sales arrangement.
We account for these types of contracts as a combined single performance obligation with no segmentation between types of products and services.
We treat contract modifications as a separate contract and new performance obligations when the additional goods or services are distinct and do not add to the unique configuration or are outside the integrated system and when the consideration reflects standalone selling prices.
If the additional goods or services offered under the modification enhance the uniquely configured or integrated systems, revenue is allocated to the existing contracts' performance obligation.
For service-type or other performance obligations, we recognize revenue over time, which is the most faithful depiction of the customer obtaining control and benefits from the work performed.
Contract assets represent revenue recognized in excess of amounts billed and include unbilled receivables.
We adjust the contract price for the effects of a significant financing component if we expect, at contract inception, that the period between when we transfer goods and services to a customer will exceed one year from the time the customer pays.
The increase in our contract assets and contract liabilities from April 28, 2018 to July 28, 2018 was due to the timing of billing schedules and revenue recognition, which can vary significantly depending on the contractual payment terms and the seasonality of the sports markets.
During the three months ended July 28, 2018, we recognized revenue of $23,805 related to our contract liabilities as of April 28, 2018.
Our Transportation business unit primarily consists of sales of intelligent transportation systems dynamic messaging signs for road management, mass transit, and aviation applications and other electronic signage for advertising and way-finding needs, which includes our Vanguard® and Galaxy® product lines and other intelligent transportation systems dynamic message signs, to governmental transportation departments, transportation industry contractors, airlines and other transportation related customers.
We have numerous customers worldwide for sales of our products and services, and no customers accounted for 10% or more of net sales; therefore, we are not economically dependent on a limited number of customers for the sale of our products and services except with respect to our dependence on two major digital billboard customers in our Commercial business unit.
Marketable securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the condensed consolidated balance sheets.
In addition, as of July 28, 2018, we anticipate we will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities, and we have determined no other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized.
In conducting our impairment testing, we compare the fair value of each of our business units to the related carrying value of the allocated assets.
We utilize the income approach based on discounted projected cash flows to estimate the fair value of each unit.
Included in accounts receivable as of July 28, 2018 and April 28, 2018 was $1,190 and $964, respectively, of retainage on construction-type contracts, all of which is expected to be collected within one year.
The present value of these contracts and leases are recorded as a receivable as the revenue is recognized in accordance with GAAP, and profit is recognized to the extent the present value is in excess of cost.
The present value of long-term contracts and lease receivables, including accrued interest and current maturities, was $2,987 and $3,393 as of July 28, 2018 and April 28, 2018, respectively.
ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair values for fixed-rate long-term receivables are estimated using a discounted cash flow analysis based on interest rates currently being offered for contracts with similar terms to customers with similar credit quality.
The carrying amounts reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets for long-term receivables approximate fair value and have been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
Fair values for fixed-rate long-term marketing obligations are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation applying interest rates currently being offered for debt with similar terms and underlying collateral.
The total carrying value of long-term marketing obligations as reported on our condensed consolidated balance sheets within other long-term obligations approximates fair value and has been categorized as a Level 2 fair value measurement.
The following table sets forth by Level within the fair value hierarchy our financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at July 28, 2018 and April 28, 2018 according to the valuation techniques we used to determine their fair values.
We account for all derivatives on the condensed consolidated balance sheets within accounts receivable or accounts payable measured at fair value, and changes in fair values are recognized in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met for cash flow or net investment hedges.
As of July 28, 2018 and April 28, 2018, we had not designated any of our derivative instruments as accounting hedges, and thus we recorded the changes in fair value in "Other (expense) income, net" in the condensed consolidated statements of operations.
As of July 28, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $145 and $69, respectively, and as of April 28, 2018, there was an asset and liability of $41 and $236, respectively, representing the fair value of foreign currency exchange forward contracts, which were determined using Level 2 inputs from a third-party bank.


item2.txt
Our net sales and profitability historically have fluctuated due to the impact of uniquely configured orders, such as display systems for professional sports facilities, colleges and universities, and spectacular projects in the commercial area, as well as the seasonality of the sports market.
Our remaining performance obligations ("backlog") consist of contractually binding sales agreements or purchase orders for integrated electronic display systems and related products and excludes extended service agreements and service only orders.
Our success is contingent on the depth and quality of our products, including related control systems, the depth of our service offerings and our technology serving these market demands.
As a result, each year we must sell more product to generate the same or greater level of net sales as in previous fiscal years.
The increase in orders for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago was the net result of volatility in order timing of large custom projects in the spectacular niche.
Orders decreased for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to the decreased number of projects in professional sports and college and universities venues and due to an order cancellation.
Orders increased for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago due to overall strong market demand and an increase in projects for larger video systems.
Orders for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago increased primarily due to variability caused by large order timing.
Orders increased for the three months ended July 28, 2018 compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased demand for global OOH niche customers and professional sports stadiums and the related variability of timing caused by large projects.
The product order backlog as of July 28, 2018 was $177 million as compared to $184 million as of July 29, 2017 and $171 million at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Historically, our product order backlog varies due to the seasonality of our business, the timing of large projects, and customer delivery schedules for these orders.
The product order backlog as of July 28, 2018 increased from July 29, 2017 in our Commercial, High School Park and Recreation, Transportation and International business units and decreased in our Live Event business unit.
Selling expense in our Commercial, Live Events, High School Park and Recreation, and Transportation business units for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 remained relatively flat compared to the same quarter a year ago.
Selling expense in our International business unit increased in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same quarter a year ago due to third-party commissions and increased personnel expenses.
General and administrative expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 decreased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to decreases in professional fees and information technology software and hardware expenses.
Product design and development expenses in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 increased as compared to the same period one year ago primarily due to increased labor costs and professional services assigned to product design and development projects relating to our strategy to accelerate the deployment of products and solutions to our markets.
To deliver value to our customers and serve the markets' expectations, we expect similar level of expenditures for new or enhanced customer solutions for the remainder of fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018.
The change in interest income, net for the first quarter of fiscal 2019 compared to the same period one year ago was primarily due to the change in investment levels caused by the volatility of working capital needs and changes in investing and financing activities.
The $5.4 million decrease in cash from operating activities from the first three months of fiscal 2018 to the first three months of fiscal 2019 was the net result of changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $1.4 million, a $0.1 million gain on the sale of property, equipment and other assets, $0.1 million in deferred income taxes, and a $3.9 million decrease in net income, adjusted by an increase of $0.1 million in other non-cash items, net.
The changes in working capital, particularly changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory, and contract assets and liabilities, and the seasonality of the sports market can have a significant impact on the amount of net cash provided by operating activities largely due to the timing of payments and receipts.
On large product orders, the time between order acceptance and project completion may extend up to and exceed 12 months depending on the amount of custom work and a customer’s delivery needs.
To the extent these payments are not sufficient to fund the costs and other expenses associated with these orders, we use working capital and bank borrowings to finance these cash requirements.
We are projecting capital expenditures to be less than $20.0 million for fiscal 2019 for purchases of manufacturing equipment for new or enhanced product production, expanded capacity, investments in quality and reliability equipment, and continued information infrastructure investments.


item3.txt
These accounts are also impacted by changes in foreign currency rates.
Of our $15.9 million in cash balances at July 28, 2018, $8.3 million were denominated in U.S. dollars, of which $4.4 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries.
At July 28, 2018, we had an additional $7.6 million in cash balances denominated in foreign currencies, of which $6.2 million were maintained in accounts of our foreign subsidiaries.


item4.txt
We carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as of July 28, 2018, which is the end of the period covered by this Report.


part2.txt
A list of exhibits required to be filed as part of this report is set forth in the Index of Exhibits, which immediately precedes such exhibits, and is incorporated herein by reference.


