Item 1. Financial Statements. 



PARK ELECTROCHEMICAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 









See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK ELECTROCHEMICAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK ELECTROCHEMICAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE EARNINGS 







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK ELECTROCHEMICAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 







See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). 





PARK ELECTROCHEMICAL CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES 



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 







1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 



The Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of  May 27, 2018, the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings for the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017, and the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the 13 weeks then ended have been prepared by Park Electrochemical Corp. (the “Company”), without audit. In the opinion of management, these unaudited consolidated financial statements contain all adjustments (which include only normal recurring adjustments) necessary to present fairly the financial position at  May 27, 2018 and the results of operations and cash flows for all periods presented. The Consolidated Statements of Operations are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the full fiscal year or any subsequent interim period. 



Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”) have been condensed or omitted. It is suggested that these consolidated financial statements be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended  February 25, 2018. There have been no significant changes to such accounting policies during the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018.  



2. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. 





Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date. An active market for the asset or liability is a market in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. 



Level 2 inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability (e.g., interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals or current market) and contractual prices for the underlying financial instrument, as well as other relevant economic measures. 



Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. Unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date. 





The fair value of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate their carrying value due to their short-term nature. Due to the variable interest rates periodically adjusting with the current LIBOR, the carrying value of outstanding borrowings under the Company’s long-term debt approximates its fair value. (See Note 5). Certain assets and liabilities of the Company are required to be recorded at fair value on either a recurring or non-recurring basis. On a recurring basis, the Company records its marketable securities at fair value using Level 1 or Level 2 inputs. (See Note 3). 



The Company’s non-financial assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis include goodwill and any long-lived assets written down to fair value. To measure fair value of such assets, the Company uses Level 3 inputs consisting of techniques including an income approach and a market approach. The income approach is based on a discounted cash flow analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. Assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis require the exercise of significant judgment, including judgment about appropriate discount rates, terminal values, growth rates and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. There were no transfers between levels within the fair value hierarchy during the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017. With respect to goodwill, the Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that fair value is less than carrying value. If, based on that assessment, the Company believes it is more likely than not that fair value is less than carrying value, a goodwill impairment test is performed. There have been no changes in events or circumstances which required impairment charges to be recorded during the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018.  





All marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in comprehensive earnings. Realized gains and losses, amortization of premiums and discounts, and interest and dividend income, are included in interest and other income in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The costs of securities sold are based on the specific identification method. 



























On  January 15, 2016, the Company entered into a three-year revolving credit facility agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with HSBC Bank USA, National Association (“HSBC Bank”). This Credit Agreement replaced the Amended Credit Agreement that the Company entered into with PNC Bank in  February 2014. The Credit Agreement provided for loans up to $75,000 and letters of credit up to $2,000. 





On  January 3, 2018, in connection with the Company’s prepayment of the entire loan balance, the Company terminated the Credit Agreement. The prepayment was made with the Company’s cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash. 



Interest expense recorded under the Credit Agreement was $0 and $510 during the 13-week periods ended  May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017, respectively.  





As of May 27, 2018, the Company had a 2002 Stock Option Plan (the “Plan”), and no other stock-based compensation plan. The Plan was approved by the Company’s shareholders and provided for the grant of stock options to directors and key employees of the Company. All options granted under the Plan have exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the underlying common stock of the Company at the time of grant, which, pursuant to the terms of the Plan, is the reported closing price of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date preceding the date the option is granted. Options granted under the Plan become exercisable 25% one year after the date of grant, with an additional 25% exercisable each succeeding anniversary of the date of grant, and expire 10 years after the date of grant. 



The Plan terminated on May 21, 2018, and authority to grant additional options under the Plan expired on that date. All options granted under the Plan will expire in April 2028 or earlier. The Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a 2018 Stock Option Plan subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Company to be held on July 24, 2018. 





The risk-free interest rates were based on U.S. Treasury rates at the date of grant with maturity dates approximately equal to the estimated terms of the options at the date of the grant. Volatility factors were based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock. The expected dividend yields were based on the regular quarterly cash dividend per share most recently declared by the Company and on the exercise price of the options granted during the 13 weeks ended May 27, 2018. The estimated term of the options was based on evaluations of the historical and expected future employee exercise behavior. 











During the 2018 fiscal year, the Company consolidated its Nelco Products, Inc. Business Unit located in Fullerton, California and its Neltec, Inc. Business Unit located in Tempe, Arizona. The Company estimates the remaining pre-tax charge in connection with the consolidation to be approximately $1,020, which the Company expects to incur primarily during the fiscal year ending  February 28, 2021. 



The Company recorded restructuring charges of $52 and $1,250 during the 13-week periods ended  May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017 respectively, related to the consolidation. 







The Company recorded additional restructuring charges of $131 and $111 during the 13-week periods ended  May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017, respectively, related to the closure in the 2009 fiscal year of the Company’s New England Laminates Co., Inc. Business Unit located in Newburgh, New York. The New England Laminates Co., Inc. building in Newburgh, New York is held for sale. In the 2004 fiscal year, the Company reduced the book value of the building to zero, and the Company intends to sell it during the 2019 fiscal year.  



8. EARNINGS PER SHARE  



Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of (a) the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period and (b) the potentially dilutive securities outstanding during the period. Stock options are the only potentially dilutive securities; and the number of dilutive options is computed using the treasury stock method. 









Potentially dilutive securities, which were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, because either the effect would have been anti-dilutive or the options’ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common stock, were 544,000 and 872,000 for the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017, respectively.  





During the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018, the Company sold 2,987 shares of the Company’s treasury stock pursuant to the exercises of employee stock options and received proceeds of $47 from such exercises and recognized stock-based compensation expense, net of recognized tax benefits, of $201. These transactions resulted in a $187 increase in additional paid-in capital during the period. 



On  January 8, 2015, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the Company’s purchase, on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions, of up to 1,250,000 shares of its common stock, representing approximately 6% of the Company’s 20,945,634 total outstanding shares as of the close of business on  January 7, 2015. This authorization superseded all prior Board of Directors’ authorizations to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock. 



On  March 10, 2016, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the Company’s purchase, on the open market and in privately negotiated transactions, of up to 1,000,000 additional shares of its common stock, in addition to the unused prior authorization to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock announced on  January 8, 2015. As a result, the Company is authorized to purchase up to a total of 1,531,412 shares of its common stock, representing approximately 7.6% of the Company’s 20,244,558 total outstanding shares as of the close of business on  June 27, 2018. 



The Company did not purchase any shares of its common stock during the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018 or during the 13 weeks ended  May 28, 2017. 







The Company’s effective tax rate for the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018 was 17.6% compared to negative 194.3% for the 13 weeks ended  May 28, 2017. The effective tax rates for the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017 were lower than the United States Federal income tax rate primarily due to portions of taxable income in jurisdictions with lower effective income tax rates, larger foreign tax incentives and a reversal of a tax reserve of $688 in the 13 weeks ended  May 28, 2017 related to certain foreign tax credit positions taken in prior years. 



The Company continuously evaluates the liquidity and capital requirements of its operations in the United States and of its foreign operations. As a result of such evaluations, the Company repatriated $5,750, $135,300 and $6,800 in cash from the Company’s subsidiary in Singapore in the 2019 fiscal year first quarter and in the 2018 and 2017 fiscal years, respectively.  







Sales are attributed to geographic regions based upon the region in which the materials were delivered to the customer. Sales between geographic regions were not significant. 











12. INFORMATION ON BUSINESS SEGMENTS 





Aerospace - designs, develops and manufactures advanced composite materials, primary and secondary structures and assemblies and low-volume tooling for the aerospace markets. 















Litigation  



The Company is subject to a number of proceedings, lawsuits and other claims related to environmental, employment, product and other matters. The Company is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes in these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each individual issue. The required reserves  may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach, such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. The Company believes that the ultimate disposition of such proceedings, lawsuits and claims will not have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, capital resources, business, consolidated results of operations or financial position of the Company. In the first quarter of the 2018 fiscal year, the Company recorded a one-time litigation expense of $375 for the settlement of an employment litigation. 



Environmental Contingencies  



The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have been named by the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) or a comparable state agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (the “Superfund Act”) or similar state law as potentially responsible parties in connection with alleged releases of hazardous substances at three sites. 



Under the Superfund Act and similar state laws, all parties who  may have contributed any waste to a hazardous waste disposal site or contaminated area identified by the EPA or comparable state agency  may be jointly and severally liable for the cost of cleanup. Generally, these sites are locations at which numerous persons disposed of hazardous waste. In the case of the Company’s subsidiaries, generally the waste was removed from their manufacturing facilities and disposed at waste sites by various companies which contracted with the subsidiaries to provide waste disposal services. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have been accused of or charged with any wrongdoing or illegal acts in connection with any such sites. The Company believes it maintains an effective and comprehensive environmental compliance program. 



The insurance carriers which provided general liability insurance coverage to the Company and its subsidiaries for the years during which the Company’s subsidiaries’ waste was disposed at these sites have in the past reimbursed the Company and its subsidiaries for 100% of their legal defense and remediation costs associated with two of these sites. 



The total costs incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries in connection with these sites, including legal fees incurred by the Company and its subsidiaries and their assessed share of remediation costs and excluding amounts expected to be reimbursed by insurance carriers, were approximately $1 and $1 during the 13 weeks ended  May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017, respectively. The Company had no recorded liabilities for environmental matters at May 27, 2018 and  May 28, 2017. 



The Company does not record environmental liabilities and related legal expenses for which the Company believes that it and its subsidiaries have general liability insurance coverage for the years during which the Company’s subsidiaries’ waste was disposed at two sites for which certain subsidiaries of the Company have been named as potentially responsible parties. Pursuant to such general liability insurance coverage, three insurance carriers reimburse the Company and its subsidiaries for 100% of the legal defense and remediation costs associated with the two sites. 





Included in selling, general and administrative expenses are charges for actual expenditures and accruals, based on estimates, for certain environmental matters described above. The Company accrues estimated costs associated with known environmental matters, when such costs can be reasonably estimated and when the outcome appears probable. The Company believes that the ultimate disposition of known environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  





Recently Adopted 









In  May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, including most industry-specific revenue recognition guidance throughout the Industry Topics of the Codification. This guidance requires that an entity recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, and expands the related disclosure requirements. The new standard was originally scheduled to be effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within those fiscal years. In  August 2015, the FASB delayed the effective date of this guidance for one year. With the delay, the new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2017, and interim periods therein, with an option to adopt the standard on the originally scheduled effective date. The Company has adopted the guidance effective  February 26, 2018, the first day of the 2019 fiscal year, and the adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows, financial position or disclosures. 





Recently Issued 



In  February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), intended to increase transparency and comparability among companies by requiring most leases to be included on the balance sheet and by expanding disclosure requirements, effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after  December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years (i.e.,  January 1, 2019, for a calendar year entity). Early application is permitted for all public business entities and all nonpublic business entities upon issuance. The Company is currently evaluating the impact that this new guidance  may have on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows, financial position and disclosures. 





Item 1. Legal Proceedings. 



No material pending legal proceedings. 



Item 1A. Risk Factors. 



There have been no material changes in the risk factors as previously disclosed in the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the fiscal year ended February 25, 2018. 



