Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of corporate information technology (IT) environments—applications, platform and infrastructure.
We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.
Our comprehensive and fully integrated stack of Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings integrate the software, hardware and services on the customers’ behalf in IT environments that we deploy, support and manage for the customer.
Our integrated Oracle Cloud offerings are designed to be rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; easily maintainable to reduce integration and testing work; connectable among differing deployment models to enable interchangeability and extendibility between cloud and on-premise IT environments; compatible to easily move workloads between on-premise IT environments and the Oracle Cloud; cost-effective by requiring lower upfront customer investment; and to be secure, standards-based and reliable.
We are a leader in the core technologies of cloud IT environments, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure.
In addition to providing a broad spectrum of cloud offerings, we develop and sell our applications, platform and infrastructure products and services to our customers worldwide for use in cloud-based IT environments and other IT environments.
An important element of our corporate strategy is to continue our investments in, and innovation with respect to, our products and services that we offer through our cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services businesses.
We have a deep understanding as to how applications, platform and infrastructure technologies interact and function with one another within IT environments.
We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, operation and integration of these differing technologies to make them more cost-effective and easier to deploy, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve their computing performance relative to our competitors.
After the initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our research and development efforts and deep IT expertise by electing to purchase and renew Oracle support offerings for their software and hardware deployments, which may include unspecified product enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS contracts with us.
Our Oracle Cloud at Customer program provides another deployment option for customers to utilize the Oracle Cloud Machine and Oracle Database Exadata Cloud Machine to bring certain Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings to a customer’s on-premise IT environment to meet data sovereignty, data residency, data protection and regulatory business policy requirements, among others, while benefiting from the many advantages of a cloud service.
A selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy.
We believe that our acquisitions enhance the products and services that we can offer to customers, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our revenues and earnings, and increase stockholder value.
In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies that add to, are complementary to, or have otherwise enhanced our existing offerings.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models.
To address this demand, we have increased our investments in and focus on the development, marketing and sale of our cloud-based applications, platform and infrastructure technologies resulting in higher growth of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues as customer preferences have pivoted to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and as customers migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing on-premise workloads.
We expect these trends to continue.
We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and interoperable deployment models for our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy and better address customer needs relative to our competitors, many of whom provide fewer offerings and more restrictive deployment models.
We enable our customers to evolve and transform to substantially any IT deployment model at whatever pace is most appropriate for them.
Our cloud and on-premise software line of business, which represented 81% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and on-premise software offerings.
Our Oracle Cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS offerings deliver applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that we host, manage and support and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
The majority of our SaaS, PaaS and IaaS arrangements have a duration of 12 to 36 months and we strive to renew these contracts when they are eligible for renewal.
We offer customers the ability to license our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, for cloud-based and other IT environments.
Our new software license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized when unrestricted access to the software license is granted provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met.
The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software licenses revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud-based offerings in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over the subscription period.
New software license customers have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which grant rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, as well as technical support assistance.
Our software license updates and product support contracts are generally one year in duration and are generally billed in advance of the service being performed and are generally recognized as revenues as the software support services are delivered.
In recent periods, we have placed significant strategic emphasis on growing our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues, which represented 16% of our total consolidated revenues during each of the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, and 13% and 12% of our total consolidated revenues during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017, respectively.
We expect these trends will continue with the mix of this business’ revenues continuing to shift toward cloud-based services.
   •    contributions from our acquisitions.
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and on-premise software revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and on-premise software products and services.
Our cloud and on-premise software business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our new software licenses revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, virtualization software, operating systems, and management software that are generally recognized as revenues upon delivery to the customer provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met, and also include related hardware support.
We expect to make investments in research and development to improve existing hardware products and services and to develop new hardware products and services.
Our hardware support offerings provide customers with software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software products, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Hardware support contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues as the hardware support services are delivered.
Our services business helps customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies.
We believe that our services are differentiated based on our focus on Oracle technologies, extensive experience, and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices.
Our services offerings include consulting services, advanced support services and education services and represented 9% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis.
Our services business has lower margins than our cloud and on-premise software and hardware businesses.
Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy.
In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies, including NetSuite Inc. in the second quarter of fiscal 2017.
Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions.
We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.
In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application.
There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result.
Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates.
Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
The comparability of our operating results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year periods was impacted by the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
   •    a $7.6 billion expense related to the application of the one-time transition tax to certain foreign subsidiary earnings that were generated prior to December 31, 2017, which expense was substantially recorded to non-current income taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet and which corresponds to the amount we currently expect to periodically settle over an eight year period as provided by the Act;
   •    the net favorable impacts of the Act on our tax profile and effective tax rate beginning on January 1, 2018, which we generally expect will continue into future periods.
We believe we have sufficient cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances, as well as access to other capital resources, if required, to settle the $7.6 billion one-time transition tax described above.
The net expense related to the enactment of the Act has been accounted for during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 based on provisional estimates pursuant to the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry.
The operating margins of our businesses, in particular, our cloud and on-premise software business and hardware business, are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term.
In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting.
The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs.
We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below.
In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure.
To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S.
Dollars are converted into U.S.
Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2017, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods.
For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on February 28, 2018 and 2017, our financial statements would reflect reported revenues of $1.23 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 (using 1.23 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period) and $1.06 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2017 (using 1.06 as the month-end average exchange rate for the period).
The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 using the May 31, 2017 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period.
In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency.
These constant currency expense decreases were partially offset by higher expenses during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 related to higher cloud SaaS expenses and cloud PaaS and IaaS expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud SaaS revenues and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues; and higher general and administrative expenses that were primarily related to higher professional fees that were legal related.
In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 as our total revenues grew while our total expenses declined.
Excluding the effects of foreign currency rate variations, our total operating expenses increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to higher cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS expenses due to similar reasons as noted above; higher sales and marketing expenses; increased stock–based compensation expenses; increased restructuring expenses; and higher intangible asset amortization due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our acquisition of NetSuite and other recently acquired companies.
These constant currency expense increases were partially offset by constant currency expense decreases during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 related to lower constant currency hardware expenses and lower constant currency software license updates and product support expenses, primarily due to similar reasons as noted above.
In constant currency, our total operating margin increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 due to the increase in our total revenues and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues remained flat.
You should review the introduction under “Impact of Acquisitions” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.
 (1)   In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS subscription and hardware obligations assumed.
To the extent customers for which these contractual obligations pertain renew these contracts with us, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contracts’ values over the respective contracts’ renewal periods.
 (2)   Certain acquired companies capitalized sales commissions associated with subscription agreements and amortized these amounts over the related contractual terms.
Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances.
 (4)   Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation expenses for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
 (5)   Restructuring expenses during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2017 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2017 Restructuring Plan).
Additional information regarding certain of our restructuring plans is provided in the discussion below under “Restructuring Expenses”, Note 7 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report, and in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.
    Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards.
The income tax effects presented for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2017 were calculated reflecting effective tax rates of 21.6% and 24.1%, respectively, instead of 17.0% and 21.3%, respectively, which represented our effective tax rates as derived per our condensed consolidated statements of operations, primarily due to the net tax effects of acquisition related items, including the tax effects of amortization of intangible assets, and the net tax effects of stock-based compensation.
Our cloud and on-premise software business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS offerings and the licensing of our software for cloud-based and other IT environments with the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts.
New software licenses revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and other IT environments and are generally recognized when unrestricted access to the software license is granted provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met.
Software license updates and product support revenues are typically generated through the sale of software support contracts related to new software licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term.
We also continue to market our offerings through indirect channels.
These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS offerings and software support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and software offerings, and marketing program costs.
 (1)   Includes cloud and on-premise software revenue adjustments related to certain cloud and software support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements.
See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information.
 (2)   Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations.
The increases in our constant currency cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented were primarily due to the continued strategic emphasis we placed on selling, marketing and growing our cloud offerings and we expect these revenue trends will continue.
The increases in constant currency software license updates and product support revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented were a result of substantially all customers electing to purchase software support contracts in conjunction with their purchase of new software licenses, and due to the renewal of substantially all of the software support customer base eligible for renewal during the trailing 4-quarter period.
In constant currency, total cloud and on-premise software expenses increased in the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to higher cloud SaaS, PaaS and IaaS expenses resulting primarily from increased headcount and technology infrastructure expenses that were incurred to support the related cloud SaaS and cloud PaaS and IaaS revenues increases; and higher sales and marketing expenses primarily resulting from increased headcount.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and on-premise software segment’s total margin increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to the increases in revenues during the fiscal 2018 periods presented.
In constant currency, total margin as a percentage of revenues increased in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 primarily due to the increase in revenues, and was flat in the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
Our hardware business revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, computer server, storage, and industry-specific hardware products for IT environments that are generally recognized as revenues upon delivery to the customer provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met.
Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term.
 (1)   Includes hardware revenue adjustments related to certain hardware contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements.
See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information.
 (2)   Excludes stock-based compensation and certain allocations.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as expenses decreased at a rate faster than our revenues for this business.
We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies.
Services revenues are generally recognized as the services are performed.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as a percentage of total services revenues decreased during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, primarily due to the decrease in revenues for this business.
In constant currency, total services expenses were flat during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, while total margin and total margin as a percentage of revenues declined slightly.
On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses decreased during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower fiscal 2018 employee related expenses related to lower headcount resulting from the restructuring of certain of our research and development operations during the fiscal 2018 periods presented.
These fiscal 2018 cost savings were partially offset by investments in the development of our cloud-based offerings and by higher stock-based compensation during the fiscal 2018 periods relative to the corresponding prior year periods.
On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods due primarily to higher professional services expenses that were primarily legal related, and higher stock-based compensation.
These decreases during the third quarter of fiscal 2018 were partially offset by additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired since the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2017.
On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses decreased in the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to lower stock-based compensation expenses and were also offset by certain benefits we recorded to professional fees and other, net during the fiscal 2018 periods presented.
Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 periods presented primarily related to our 2017 Restructuring Plan.
Our management approved, committed to and initiated the 2017 Restructuring Plan in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our management supplemented the 2017 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take.
The total estimated restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan are up to $1.1 billion and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item within our condensed consolidated statements of operations as they are incurred.
The total estimated remaining restructuring costs associated with the 2017 Restructuring Plan were approximately $112 million as of February 28, 2018 and the majority of the remaining costs are expected to be incurred through the end of fiscal 2018.
Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods.
 certain of our sales and marketing and research and development operations.
On a constant currency basis, our non-operating income, net increased during the fiscal 2018 periods presented, relative to the fiscal 2017 periods presented, primarily due to an increase in other income, net related to higher net realized gains on the sale of certain marketable securities and higher interest income resulting from higher cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances and higher interest rates.
The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S.
As the U.S. Dollar generally weakened against certain major international currencies during the first nine months of
 fiscal 2018, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S.
Dollars for these subsidiaries increased on a net basis as of February 28, 2018 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2017 balance sheet date.
Days sales outstanding, which we calculate by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 36 days at February 28, 2018 compared with 44 days at May 31, 2017.
Net cash provided by operating activities increased during the first nine months of fiscal 2018 primarily due to higher net income after adjusting for the one-time income tax accounting effects of our adoption of the Act (refer to “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” for additional discussion).
Net cash used for investing activities decreased in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 relative to the first nine months of fiscal 2017 due primarily to a decrease in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, partially offset by an increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities and other investments, net of proceeds received from sales and maturities.
   •    $2.00 billion of 2.95% senior notes due November 2024;
   •    $2.75 billion of 3.25% senior notes due November 2027;
   •    $2.25 billion of 4.00% senior notes due November 2047.
We issued the senior notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common stock, repayment of indebtedness and future acquisitions.
Additionally, during the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we repaid $3.5 billion of senior notes pursuant to their terms.
Additional details regarding the senior notes are included in Note 6 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements, including the $7.6 billion one-time transition tax described under “Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act” above.
In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders.
We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages.
Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2014 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.2% per year.
The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new restricted stock-based awards or stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period.
This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised.
Of the outstanding stock options at February 28, 2018, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, 16.6% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date.
In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program.
However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes.
At February 28, 2018, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 9.8%.
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On December 14, 2017 and February 2, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion.
As of February 28, 2018, approximately $22.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
