Oracle Corporation provides products and services that address all aspects of information technology (IT) environments—applications, platform and infrastructure.
We market and sell our offerings globally to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers with a worldwide sales force positioned to offer the combinations that best meet customer needs.
Our cloud and license line of business, which represented 82% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud and license offerings.
cloud services revenues, which includes revenues from Oracle Cloud Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings (collectively, Oracle Cloud Services), which provide customers access to applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud-based deployment models that Oracle develops, provides unspecified updates and enhancements for, hosts, manages and supports and that customers access by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period.
The majority of our Oracle Cloud Services arrangements are billed in advance of the cloud services being performed; have durations of one to three years; are generally renewed; and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual period of the cloud contract or, in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues include revenues from the licensing of our software products including Oracle Applications, Oracle Database, Oracle Fusion Middleware and Java, among others, which our customers use for cloud-based, on-premise and other IT environments.
Our cloud license and on-premise license transactions are generally perpetual in nature and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
Revenues from usage-based royalty arrangements for distinct cloud licenses and on-premise licenses are recognized at the point in time when the software end user usage occurs.
The timing of a few large license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly license revenues, which is different than the typical revenue recognition pattern for our cloud services and license support revenues in which revenues are generally recognized ratably over their contractual terms.
Cloud license and on-premise license customers have the option to purchase license support contracts, as described above.
Providing choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies are important elements of our corporate strategy.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased for our Oracle Cloud Services.
To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications, platform and infrastructure licenses and license support to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads.
We expect these trends to continue.
Our cloud and license business’ revenues growth is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions; governmental budgetary constraints; the strategy for and competitive position of our offerings; our acquisitions; the continued renewal of our cloud services and license support customer contracts by the customer contract base; substantially all customers continuing to purchase license support contracts in connection with their license purchases; the pricing of license support contracts sold in connection with the sales of licenses; the pricing, amount and volume of licenses and cloud services sold; and foreign currency rate fluctuations.
contributions from our acquisitions.
We believe all of these factors should contribute to future growth in our cloud and license revenues, which should enable us to continue to make investments in research and development to develop and improve our cloud and license products and services.
Our cloud and license business’ margin has historically trended upward over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year due to the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over those quarterly periods and because the majority of our costs for this business are generally fixed in the short term.
The historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues over the course of the four quarters within a particular fiscal year is primarily due to the addition of new cloud services and license support contracts to the customer contract base that we generally recognize ratably; the renewal of existing customers’ cloud services and license support contracts over the course of each fiscal year that we generally recognize ratably; and the historical upward trend of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues, which we generally recognize at a point in time upon delivery, over those four quarterly periods.
Our hardware business, which represented 10% of our total revenues on a trailing 4-quarter basis, provides a broad selection of hardware products and hardware-related software products including Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage, industry-specific hardware, operating systems, virtualization, management and other hardware related software, and related hardware support.
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
and services and to develop new hardware products and services.
Our hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products and associated software products such as Oracle Solaris.
Our hardware support offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Hardware support contracts are entered into at the option of the customer, are generally priced as a percentage of the net hardware products fees and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual terms.
Our selective and active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy.
In recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies.
Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report provides additional information related to our recent acquisitions.
We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.
In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application.
There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result.
Our senior management has reviewed our critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Impacts of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017
The comparability of our operating results in the first half of fiscal 2019 compared to the corresponding prior year was impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act), which was effective for us starting in our third quarter of fiscal 2018.
In addition, we discuss below the results of each our three businesses—cloud and license, hardware and services—which are our operating segments as defined pursuant to ASC 280, Segment Reporting.
The financial reporting for our three businesses that is presented below is presented in a manner that is consistent with that used by our CODMs.
We also utilize these inputs to calculate and present a segment margin for each business in the discussion below.
In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations, we compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this Quarterly Report using constant currency disclosure.
To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S.
Dollars are converted into U.S.
Dollars at constant exchange rates (i.e., the rates in effect on May 31, 2018, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year) rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods.
The constant currency presentation, however, would translate the results for the first half of fiscal 2019 and first half of fiscal 2018 using the May 31, 2018 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period.
In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual, unrounded results in reported currency and in constant currency.
The constant currency increases in our cloud and license revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to growth in our cloud services and license support revenues as customers purchased our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies via cloud deployment models and license deployment models and renewed their related cloud and license support contracts to continue to gain access to our latest technology and support services.
The constant currency decreases in our services revenues during the fiscal 2019 periods presented were attributable to declines in our consulting services and education services revenues.
In constant currency, the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions contributed 11% and 35%, respectively, 44% and 40%, respectively, and 45% and 25%, respectively, to the growth in our second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019 total revenues, respectively.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total operating expenses increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to higher cloud services and license support expenses and higher cloud and license related sales and marketing expenses, both of which resulted primarily from increased headcount and infrastructure expenses to support the increases in our cloud and license business’ revenues; increased research and development expenses; and higher amortization of intangible assets.
In constant currency, our total operating margin and operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented primarily due to the increases in total revenues.
You should review the introduction under “Impacts of Acquisitions” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud services and license support contracts assumed.
the above table that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities upon delivery of the contractual obligations.
Certain acquired companies capitalized sales commissions associated with subscription agreements and amortized these amounts over the related contractual terms.
Business combination accounting rules generally require us to eliminate these acquired capitalized sales commissions balances as of the acquisition date and our post-combination GAAP sales and marketing expenses generally do not reflect the amortization of these acquired deferred sales commissions balances.
This adjustment is intended to include, and thus reflect, the full amount of amortization related to such balances as though the acquired companies operated independently in the periods presented.
Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation expenses for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2019 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2019 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2019 Restructuring Plan).
Restructuring expenses during the first half of fiscal 2018 primarily related to employee severance in connection with our Fiscal 2017 Oracle Restructuring Plan (2017 Restructuring Plan).
Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested stock options and restricted stock-based awards assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated generally upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those stock options and restricted stock-based awards.
Our cloud and license business engages in the sale, marketing and delivery of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through various deployment models including license support offerings; Oracle Cloud Services offerings; and cloud license and on-premise license offerings.
generated through the sale of license support contracts related to cloud licenses and on-premise licenses purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
Our cloud services deliver certain of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we develop, provide unspecified updates and enhancements for, host, manage and support, and revenues are generally recognized over the contractual term, which is generally one to three years, or in the case of usage model contracts, as the cloud services are consumed.
Cloud license and on-premise license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses, generally on a perpetual basis, to use our database and middleware and our applications software products within cloud and on-premise IT environments and are generally recognized upfront at the point in time when the software is made available to the customer to download and use.
We also continue to market certain of our offerings through indirect channels.
These costs are largely personnel and infrastructure related including the cost of providing our cloud services and license support offerings, salaries and commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our cloud and license offerings, and marketing program costs.
Includes cloud services and license support revenue adjustments related to certain cloud services and license support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded as revenues by the acquired businesses as independent entities but were not recognized in our GAAP-based condensed consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented due to business combination accounting requirements.
See “Presentation of Operating Segment Results and Other Financial Information” above for additional information.
In constant currency, our total applications revenues and our total platform and infrastructure revenues each grew during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, each relative to the corresponding prior year periods, as customers continued to deploy our applications technologies and platform and infrastructure technologies through a wide array of different deployment models that we offer to enable customer choice.
The Americas region contributed 21% and 38%, respectively, the EMEA region contributed 37% and 34%, respectively, and the Asia Pacific region contributed 42% and 28%, respectively, of the constant currency revenues growth for this business during the second quarter and first half of fiscal 2019, respectively.
In constant currency, total cloud and license expenses increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to higher sales and marketing expenses and higher cloud services and license support expenses, both of which increased primarily due to higher employee related expenses from higher headcount.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our cloud and license segment’s total margin increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to the fiscal 2019 increases in revenues for this segment, while total fiscal 2019 margins as a percentage of revenues decreased slightly due to expenses growth for this segment.
Our hardware business’ revenues are generated from the sales of our Oracle Engineered Systems, server, storage, and industry-specific hardware.
The hardware product and related software, such as an operating system or firmware, are highly interdependent and interrelated and are accounted for as a combined performance obligation.
The revenues for this combined performance obligation are generally recognized at the point in time that the hardware product is delivered to the customer and ownership is transferred to the customer.
Our hardware business also earns revenues from the sale of hardware support contracts purchased by our customers at their option and are generally recognized as revenues ratably as the hardware support services are delivered over the contractual term, which is generally one year.
These constant currency fiscal 2019 hardware revenues decreases were partially offset by certain fiscal 2019 hardware revenues increases related to our Oracle Engineered Systems offerings, primarily Oracle Exadata.
In constant currency, total margin and total margin as percentage of revenues for our hardware segment increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to lower expenses.
We offer services to customers and partners to help to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies.
Services revenues are generally recognized over time as the services are performed.
Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, our total services revenues decreased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to revenue declines in our consulting services and education services.
Constant currency decreases in our services revenues in the Americas and Asia Pacific regions were partially offset by a constant currency services revenues increase in the EMEA region during the fiscal 2019 periods presented.
In constant currency, total services expenses increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented relative to the corresponding prior year periods primarily due to an increase in headcount related expenses associated with our consulting offerings.
On a constant currency basis, total research and development expenses increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, primarily due to increased employee related expenses resulting from increased headcount.
On a constant currency basis, total general and administrative expenses decreased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented primarily due to reductions in professional fees, partially offset by modestly higher employee related expenses.
Amortization of intangible assets increased during the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, due to additional amortization from intangible assets that we acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, partially offset by a reduction in expenses associated with certain of our intangible assets that became fully amortized.
On a constant currency basis, acquisition related and other expenses increased slightly in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to an increase in net expenses associated with business combination adjustments.
Restructuring expenses in the fiscal 2019 periods presented primarily related to our 2019 Restructuring Plan.
Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2018 periods presented primarily related to our 2017 Restructuring Plan, which is substantially complete.
Our management approved, committed to and initiated these plans in order to restructure and further improve efficiencies in our operations.
Our estimated costs are subject to change in future periods.
Interest expense increased in the fiscal 2019 periods presented, relative to the corresponding prior year periods, primarily due to higher average borrowings resulting from our issuance of $10.0 billion of senior notes in November 2017 which was partially offset by a reduction in interest expense resulting from the maturity and repayment of $6.0 billion of senior notes during fiscal 2018.
The amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S.
As the U.S. Dollar generally strengthened against certain major international currencies during the first half of fiscal 2019, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S.
Dollars for these subsidiaries decreased on a net basis as of November 30, 2018 relative to what we would have reported using constant currency rates from the May 31, 2018 balance sheet date.
Net cash provided by operating activities decreased modestly in the first half of fiscal 2019, relative to the corresponding prior year period, primarily due to certain cash unfavorable changes in working capital balances, primarily cash unfavorable changes associated with income taxes, which was largely attributable to an installment payment made pursuant to the transition tax provisions of the Tax Act.
The increase in net cash provided by investing activities during the first half of fiscal 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in purchases of marketable securities and other investments.
We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligation requirements.
In addition, we believe that we could fund our future acquisitions, dividend payments and repurchases of common stock or debt with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.
Our stock-based compensation program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders.
We recognize that restricted stock-based awards and stock options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of stock-based awards granted while providing competitive compensation packages.
Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2015 has been a weighted-average annualized rate of 1.5% per year.
restricted stock-based awards or stock options granted and assumed, net of restricted stock-based awards and stock options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted-average outstanding shares during the calculation period.
This maximum potential dilution will only result if all restricted stock-based awards vest and all stock options are exercised.
Of the outstanding stock options at November 30, 2018, which generally have a ten-year exercise period, approximately 23.2% have exercise prices higher than the market price of our common stock on such date.
In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock-based compensation program.
However, we may modify the levels of our stock repurchases in the future depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash we have available for acquisitions, to pay dividends, to repay or repurchase indebtedness or for other purposes.
At November 30, 2018, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding restricted stock-based awards and unexercised stock options, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including stock options where the strike price is higher than the market price as of such date, was 10.0%.
For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements, if any, and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, if any, see Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report.
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
On September 17, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors approved an expansion of our stock repurchase program by an additional $12.0 billion.
As of November 30, 2018, approximately $9.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
On December 17, 2018, we issued a press release announcing our financial results for our fiscal second quarter ended November 30, 2018 furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to a Form 8-K.
The press release stated that our two cloud ERP businesses, Fusion ERP and NetSuite ERP, delivered a revenue growth rate of 32% in the quarter, which was the non-GAAP growth rate.
