See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
See notes to condensed consolidated financial statements.
We have prepared the condensed consolidated financial statements included herein pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
However, we believe that the disclosures herein are adequate to ensure the information presented is not misleading.
We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring items, have been included in the accompanying financial statements to present fairly the results of the interim periods.
Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.
Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating income or net income (loss).
Impacts of the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
The comparability of our operating results in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 compared to the corresponding prior year periods, and of our consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2018 relative to May 31, 2017, was impacted by the U.S. 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act), which was signed into law on December 22, 2017.
   •    a $7.6 billion expense related to the application of the one-time transition tax to certain foreign subsidiary earnings that were generated prior to December 31, 2017, which expense was substantially recorded to non-current income taxes payable in our consolidated balance sheet and which corresponds to the amount we currently expect to periodically settle over an eight year period as provided by the Act;
The net expense related to the enactment of the Act has been accounted for during the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal 2018 based on provisional estimates pursuant to the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
Restricted cash that was included within cash and cash equivalents as presented within our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017 and our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended February 28, 2018 and 2017 was nominal.
Acquisition related and other expenses consist of personnel related costs and stock-based compensation for transitional and certain other employees, integration related professional services, certain business combination adjustments including certain adjustments after the measurement period has ended and certain other operating items, net.
Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange losses, the noncontrolling interests in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries (primarily Oracle Financial Services Software Limited and Oracle Japan) and net other income, including net realized gains and losses related to all of our investments and net unrealized gains and losses related to the small portion of our investment portfolio that we classify as trading.
We offer certain of our customers the option to acquire our software products, hardware products and services offerings through separate long-term payment contracts.
We generally sell these contracts that we have financed for our customers on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions within 90 days of the contracts’ dates of execution.
We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financing receivables because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financing receivables.
Financing receivables sold to financial institutions were $360 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, and $296 million and $1.3 billion for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2017, respectively.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we entered into certain non-material agreements to acquire certain companies and expect these proposed acquisitions to close during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018.
Fiscal 2017 Acquisition of NetSuite Inc., a Related Party
We acquired NetSuite to, among other things, expand our cloud software as a service offerings with a complementary set of cloud ERP and related cloud software applications for customers.
Lawrence J. Ellison, Oracle’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Technology Officer and Oracle’s largest stockholder, is an affiliate of NetSuite’s largest stockholder, NetSuite Restricted Holdings LLC (a single member
 LLC investment entity whose interests are beneficially owned by a trust controlled by Mr. Ellison), which owned approximately 40% of the issued and outstanding NetSuite Shares immediately prior to the conclusion of the merger.
The total purchase price for NetSuite was approximately $9.1 billion, which consisted of approximately $9.0 billion in cash and $78 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed.
In allocating the purchase price based on estimated fair values, we recorded approximately $6.7 billion of goodwill, $3.2 billion of identifiable intangible assets and $763 million of net tangible liabilities.
Goodwill generated from our acquisition of NetSuite was primarily attributable to synergies expected to arise after the acquisition.
See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017 for additional information regarding our acquisition of NetSuite.
During fiscal 2017, we acquired certain companies and purchased certain technology and development assets primarily to expand our cloud-based offerings.
The total of the purchase prices, certain of which were preliminary, for these acquisitions was approximately $3.0 billion, which consisted of approximately $3.0 billion in cash and $13 million for the fair values of restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed.
As of February 28, 2018, we recorded $243 million of net tangible assets and $948 million of identifiable intangible assets, based on their estimated fair values, and $1.8 billion of residual goodwill related to our fiscal 2017 acquisitions.
Certain amounts included in these totals were preliminary and subject to change during the respective measurement periods (up to one year from the respective acquisition dates) as we obtain additional information for the preliminary fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for all periods presented included the business combination accounting effects resulting from these acquisitions, including amortization charges from acquired intangible assets (certain of which are preliminary), stock-based compensation charges for unvested restricted stock-based awards and stock options assumed, if any, and the related tax effects as though the aforementioned companies were combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2017.
The unaudited pro forma financial information for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 presented the historical results of Oracle for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018 as we did not complete any material acquisitions during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
ASC 820 defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Based on the trading prices of the $60.9 billion and $54.0 billion of senior notes and the related fair value hedges that were outstanding as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, respectively, the estimated fair values of the senior notes and the related fair value hedges using Level 2 inputs at February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017 were $62.0 billion and $56.5 billion, respectively.
 (1)   Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, we recorded goodwill adjustments for the effects on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired during the period that such a change is identified, provided that any such change is within the measurement period (up to one year from the date of the acquisition).
We issued the senior notes for general corporate purposes, which may include stock repurchases, payment of cash dividends on our common stock, repayment of indebtedness and future acquisitions.
The interest is payable semi-annually.
We may redeem some or all of the senior notes of each series prior to their maturity, subject to certain restrictions, and the payment of an applicable make-whole premium in certain instances.
The senior notes rank pari passu with any other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Oracle Corporation.
All existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation are or will be effectively senior to the senior notes.
We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants at February 28, 2018.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2018, our management supplemented the 2017 Restructuring Plan to reflect additional actions that we expect to take.
We recorded $516 million of restructuring expenses in connection with the 2017 Restructuring Plan in the first nine months of fiscal 2018 and we expect to incur the majority of the estimated remaining $112 million through the end of fiscal 2018.
 (1)   Restructuring costs recorded for individual line items primarily related to employee severance costs.
 (2)   The balances at February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017 included $298 million and $242 million, respectively, recorded in other current liabilities, and $33 million and $22 million, respectively, recorded in other non-current liabilities.
 (4)   All plan adjustments were changes in estimates whereby increases and decreases in costs were generally recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustments.
 (5)   Represents foreign currency translation and certain other adjustments.
Deferred software license updates and product support revenues and deferred hardware revenues substantially represent customer payments made in advance for support contracts that are typically billed on a per annum basis in advance with corresponding revenues being recognized ratably over the support periods.
Deferred cloud software as a service (SaaS) and deferred cloud platform as a service (PaaS) and infrastructure as a service (IaaS) revenues generally resulted from customer payments made in advance for our cloud-based offerings that are recognized over the corresponding contractual term.
Deferred services revenues include prepayments for our services business and revenues for these services are generally recognized as the services are performed.
 Deferred new software licenses revenues typically resulted from customer payments that relate to undelivered products or specified enhancements, customer specific acceptance provisions, time-based license arrangements and software license transactions that cannot be separated from undelivered consulting or other services.
In connection with our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the cloud SaaS, cloud PaaS and IaaS and software license updates and product support obligations, among others, assumed from our acquired companies.
We generally have estimated the fair values of these obligations assumed using a cost build-up approach.
The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin.
The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume these acquired obligations.
   •    cross-currency swap agreements, which are used to manage foreign currency exchange risk by converting certain of our fixed-rate Euro-denominated borrowings to fixed-rate U.S. Dollar denominated debt and are accounted for as cash flow hedges; and
   •    foreign currency borrowings, which are used to reduce the volatility in stockholders’ equity caused by the changes in the foreign currency exchange rates of the Euro with respect to the U.S. Dollar and are accounted for as net investment hedges.
We also held certain foreign currency contracts that were not designated as hedges pursuant to ASC 815.
As of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, the notional amounts of such forward contracts we held to purchase U.S.
Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $4.5 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, and the notional amount of forward contracts we held to sell U.S.
Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.
The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017.
Net gains or losses related to these forward contracts are included in non-operating income, net.
Our Board of Directors has approved a program for us to repurchase shares of our common stock.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, our Board of Directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion.
As of February 28, 2018, approximately $22.8 billion remained available for stock repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program.
We repurchased 131.6 million shares for $6.5 billion during the nine months ended February 28, 2018 (including 2.1 million shares for $105 million that were repurchased but not settled) and 74.6 million shares for $3.0 billion during the nine months ended February 28, 2017 under the stock repurchase program.
Our stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan.
Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.
During the nine months ended February 28, 2018, our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of $0.57 per share of our outstanding common stock, which we paid during the same period.
The dividend is payable on May 1, 2018 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 17, 2018.
During the first nine months of fiscal 2018, we issued 41 million restricted stock-based awards and 77 million stock options (consisting of 8 million service-based stock options (SOs) and 69 million performance-based and market-based stock options (PSOs)).
Substantially all of the awards were issued as a part of our annual stock-based award process and are subject to service-based vesting restrictions, with the PSOs primarily having performance-based and market-based vesting restrictions.
Our fiscal 2018 stock-based awards issuances were partially offset by forfeitures and cancellations of 16 million shares during the first nine months of fiscal 2018.
The RSUs and SOs that were granted during the nine months ended February 28, 2018 have vesting restrictions, valuations and contractual lives of a similar nature to those described in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.
In the third quarter of fiscal 2018 the Act was signed into law.
Our effective tax rates were 222.0% and 95.2% for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2018, respectively, and 17.0% and 21.3% for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2017, respectively.
Our net deferred tax assets were $1.6 billion and $683 million as of February 28, 2018 and May 31, 2017, respectively.
On July 27, 2015, in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion related to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement.
A final decision has yet to be issued by the Tax Court due to other outstanding issues related to the case.
At this time, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement to include stock-based compensation from its regulations.
We have reviewed this case and its impact on Oracle and concluded that no adjustment to the consolidated financial statements is appropriate at this time.
If events occur which indicate payment of these amounts is unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in the recognition of benefits in the period we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary.
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
Our chief operating decision makers (CODMs) are our Chief Executive Officers and Chief Technology Officer.
We are organized by line of business and geographically.
While our CODMs evaluate results in a number of different ways, the line of business management structure is the primary basis for which the allocation of resources and financial results are assessed.
In recent periods, customer demand has increased at a greater rate for cloud-based IT deployment models relative to on-premise IT deployment models.
As a result, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we updated our operating segments.
We have three businesses—cloud and on-premise software, hardware and services—each of which is comprised of a single operating segment.
Our cloud and on-premise software line of business markets, sells and delivers a broad spectrum of applications, platform and infrastructure technologies through our cloud offerings and software offerings.
Our Oracle Cloud SaaS and Cloud PaaS and IaaS offerings deliver certain of our applications, platform and infrastructure technologies on a subscription basis via cloud-based deployment models that we host, manage and support.
Our IaaS offerings also include Oracle Managed Cloud Services, which are designed to provide comprehensive software and hardware management, maintenance and security services for on-premise, cloud-based or hybrid IT infrastructures.
 others, for cloud and other IT environments.
Customers that license our software have the option to purchase software license updates and product support contracts, which provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases, patch releases, internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel during the support period.
Our hardware business also includes hardware support, which provides customers with software updates for the software components that are essential to the functionality of the hardware products, such as Oracle Solaris and certain other software, and can include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services.
Our services business provides services to customers and partners to help maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications, platform and infrastructure technologies.
We do not track our assets for each business.
Consequently, it is not practical to show assets by operating segment.
 (1)   These weighted shares relate to anti-dilutive restricted service based stock-based awards and stock options (as calculated using the treasury stock method) and contingently issuable shares under PSO and PSU arrangements.
On June 15, 2011, Hewlett-Packard Company, now Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (HP), filed a complaint in the California Superior Court, County of Santa Clara against Oracle Corporation alleging numerous causes of action including breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, defamation, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and violation of the California Unfair Business Practices Act.
The complaint alleged that when Oracle announced on March 22 and 23, 2011 that it would no longer develop future versions of its software to run on HP’s Itanium-based servers, it breached a settlement agreement signed on September 20, 2010 between HP and Mark Hurd (the Hurd Settlement Agreement), who is our Chief Executive Officer and was both HP’s former chief executive officer and chairman of HP’s board of directors.
HP sought a judicial declaration of the parties’ rights and obligations under the Hurd Settlement Agreement and other equitable and monetary relief.
The amended cross-complaint alleged claims including violation of the Lanham Act.
Oracle alleged that HP had secretly agreed to pay Intel to continue to develop and manufacture the Itanium microprocessor, and had misrepresented to customers that the Itanium microprocessor had a long roadmap, among other claims.
Oracle sought equitable rescission of the Hurd Settlement Agreement, and other equitable and monetary relief.
The court issued a final statement of decision on August 28, 2012, finding that the Hurd Settlement Agreement required Oracle to continue to develop certain of its software products for use on HP’s Itanium-based servers and to port such products at no cost to HP for as long as HP sells those servers (the Phase One Ruling).
On June 30, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of HP on its claims for breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and against Oracle on its claim for violation of the Lanham Act (the Phase Two Jury Verdict).
The jury awarded HP damages in the amount of $3.0 billion, and HP is entitled to post-judgment interest on this award.
Judgment was entered on October 20, 2016.
Oracle posted certain court-mandated surety bonds with the court in order to proceed with its motion for a new trial and entered into related indemnification agreements with each of the surety bond issuing companies.
Oracle filed a motion for a new trial on November 14, 2016, which was denied.
On May 3, 2017, a stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware.
The derivative suit is brought by an alleged stockholder of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf, against Oracle, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Technology Officer in his capacities as a director, officer and an alleged controlling stockholder, one of our Chief Executive Officers (who is also a director), three other directors, and Oracle as a nominal defendant.
Plaintiff alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by causing Oracle to agree to purchase NetSuite Inc. (NetSuite) at an excessive price.
Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief, an order rescinding or reforming the NetSuite transaction, unspecified monetary damages (including interest), attorneys’ fees and costs, and disgorgement of various unspecified profits, fees, compensation, and benefits.
On July 18, 2017, a second stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, brought by another alleged stockholder of Oracle, purportedly on Oracle’s behalf.
The suit is brought against all current members and one former member of our Board of Directors, and Oracle as a nominal defendant.
Plaintiff alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties by causing Oracle to agree to purchase NetSuite at an excessive price.
Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief, unspecified monetary damages (including interest), and attorneys’ fees and costs.
On August 9, 2017, the court consolidated the two derivative cases, and vacated the scheduling order relating to defendants’ motion to dismiss the first case.
On March 19, 2018, the court denied this motion.
The court ordered supplemental briefing on the issue whether all of the defendants, except for our Chief Technology Officer and one of our Chief Executive Officers, should be dismissed from this case.
The material set forth in Note 11 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 14 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q is incorporated herein by reference.
“Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2017.
The risks described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks facing us.
